abstract	location_label	topic_label
"Salt-induced deterioration of architectural heritage is accelerated drastically in marine environments. This paper investigates the deterioration mechanism of the Shore Temple using various analytical techniques. Deteriorated and pristine stone samples were analyzed using X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy (XRF), thin section studies, and SEM in order to understand the deterioration mechanism. The meteorological and micro-climatic conditions of Shore Temple in the tropical Indian climate were studied, as they have played a vital role in the deterioration of the stone matrix. The sides of the temple that face the sea as well as the upper part of the temple show intense alveolarization and the stone variety was petrologically identified as garnetiferous hornblende biotite granite. The evaluation of results in terms of the efficacy of ethyl silicate consolidation of stone after desalination is very difficult due to continuous sea sprays. The compatible lime rendering evidenced in the shelter area and then scientifically examined during this study may be applied as a protective layer to safeguard and conserve the lone Pallava edifice on the seashore from deterioration in tropical and hygric saline conditions."	NonUS	Conservation
"Coyote (Canis latrans Say, 1823) is a recent immigrant into eastern United States and little is known about the species' space use and movement in the region. We compared space use and movement of radio-collared coyotes among biological seasons. We captured and collared 30 coyotes from February through May 2011 and collected 85 386 GPS locations through October 2012 at Fort Bragg Military Installation. We defined four biological seasons according to coyote life history: breeding (December-February), gestation (March-May), pup-rearing (June-August), and dispersal (September-November). Out of 27 radio-collared individuals, we identified 10 as transient and 11 as resident based on home-range size and variability across seasons; 6 switched their status and were classified as intermediate. We observed low variability of core-area size across seasons for resident males and females, whereas we documented high variability for transient males. Movement rate of resident coyotes during spring (449.75 m/h) was greater than summer (295.33 m/h), whereas movement rates did not differ between any other seasons. For transient coyotes, movement rate during summer (283 m/h) was less than fall (374.73 m/h), spring (479.85 m/h), and winter (488.5 m/h). Some coyotes adjusted their residency status seasonally and other individuals dispersed large distances (>200 km)."	USA	Ecology
"Over the past decade, underwater photogrammetry has been experiencing an increased interest due to the enhancement of camera performance and computing power. This study describes the test of two new methods to perform georeferenced underwater photogrammetry. The first one uses the coupling between photogrammetry by scuba diving and positioning with acoustic data from a multibeam echo sounder; the second one utilises direct positioning technology with a surface floating device (photogrammetric platform). When compared with one another, the platform had a higher mapping efficiency, while being limited by depth and underwater visibility. Georeferenced underwater photogrammetry is expected to have a wide range of applications in the field of marine habitats' conservation such as seagrass meadows and the survey of submerged man-made structures such as artificial reefs and port infrastructure."	NonUS	Technology
"The Marine Strategy Framework Directive is undergoing its second implementation cycle while work is ongoing to promote further harmonization, especially regarding the European Commission standards on datasets, metrics, and thresholds. Even though spatial scales for Biodiversity descriptor criteria concerning fish are set by the Directive at subdivision of region, subregion or region level (depending on the fish species group), the scales of the assessment have never been confirmed across the multiple metrics, taxons and regions. In this work, Descriptor 1 - Biodiversity and Criterion 2 - Population abundance of the species (D1C2) was evaluated and compared for six non-commercial fish species, at five geographical scales in the Portuguese Continental waters, to understand if scales used in the assessment affect species group status and hinder the establishment of adequate monitoring or management measures. For comparability purposes, the methods used were identical to the MSFD; a Breakpoint analysis combined with a Trend analysis of the last five years. Results showed that assessments at Portuguese continental Economic Exclusive Zone level mask local population patterns that were visible when smaller size scales were used, and that each species had different scale requirements. Argentyna sphyraena had low biomass index in the northern region of Aveiro, and species analysed in the Algarve region presented distinct patterns. Downsizing scales revealed that Microchirus variegatus was not in good status - i.e., below threshold - in the southern coastal area, requiring further attention to understand how pressures are impacting populations locally. Although the overall status of the species was maintained, when species assessment was integrated, smaller sized assessment scales are required to understand how populations respond to pressures locally and therefore how monitoring and management of status and pressures should be implemented. Results highlight the need to consider species biology, ecology and population dynamics to define precise scales of assessment and to identify areas of risk at locally relevant scales."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Background: The globally abundant coccolithophore, Emiliania huxleyi, plays an important ecological role in oceanic carbon biogeochemistry by forming a cellular covering of plate-like CaCO3 crystals (coccoliths) and fixing CO2. It is unknown how the cells arrange different-sized coccoliths to maintain' full coverage, as the cell surface area of the cell changes during daily cycle. Methods: We used Euler's polyhedron formula and CaGe simulation software, validated with the geometries of coccoliths, to analyze and simulate the coccolith topology of the coccosphere and to explore the arrangement mechanisms. Results: There were only small variations in the geometries of coccoliths, even when the cells were cultured under variable light conditions. Because of geometric limits, small coccoliths tended to interlock with fewer and larger coccoliths, and vice versa. Consequently, to sustain a full coverage on the surface of cell, each coccolith was arranged to interlock with four to six others, which in turn led to each coccosphere contains at least six coccoliths. Conclusion: The number of coccoliths per coccosphere must keep pace with changes on the cell surface area as a result of photosynthesis, respiration and cell division. This study is an example of natural selection following Euler's polyhedral formula, in response to the challenge of maintaining a CaCO3 covering on coccolithophore cells as cell size changes."	NonUS	Ecology
"A recent ecological study on the sandy beaches of Qeshm Island (in the Persian Gulf) yielded Ocypode sinensis (Dai, Song & Yang, 1985) specimens. This species is a new record that had not been recorded in the Persian Gulf to date. This finding considerably extends the distribution of O. sinensis westward to sandy coasts of the Persian Gulf, which is the most westerly region in the Arabian Sea. The result of this study will help in determining strategies for further conservation of O. sinensis in Iranian sandy beaches."	NonUS	Ecology
"Does traditional generalist herbarium collecting record grass diversity more effectively than plot-based recording common in ecology? We present a checklist of the Poaceae of Mount Kilimanjaro compiled from two datasets: records from 1646 plots of 0.1ha each made since the 1990s, as well as all the specimens held at K and NHT herbaria. We record a total of 276 species in 90 genera represented by 1510 herbarium collections in both datasets; inclusion of unvouchered observations increases the diversity recorded to 288 species in 94 genera. Seventy four species were recorded only once, either through plots or herbarium collecting. Further unrecorded species are likely to be found. The herbarium and plot datasets proved more different than expected, with only 55% of species recorded by both datasets. The difficulties of grass identification and recognition in the field may have compounded selection biases inherent to both techniques. We urge both general collectors and plant ecologists to broaden their sampling techniques to capture more of the true diversity in ecosystems such as those of Mount Kilimanjaro."	NonUS	Ecology
"Ecosystem engineering species alter the physical structure of their environment and can create or modify habitats, having a massive impact on local biodiversity. Coralligenous reefs are highly diverse habitats endemic to the Mediterranean Sea built by calcareous benthic organisms among which Crustose Coralline Algae are the main engineering species. We analyzed the diversity of Lithophyllum stictiforme or L. cabiochiae in coralligenous habitats combining a multiple barcode and a population genomics approach with seascape features. Population genomics allowed disentangling pure spatial effects from environmental effects. We found that these taxa form a complex of eight highly divergent cryptic species that are easily identifiable using classic barcode markers (psbA, LSU, COI). Three factors have a significant effect on the relative abundances of these cryptic species: the location along the French Mediterranean coast, depth and Photosynthetic Active Radiation (PAR). The analysis of around 5000 SNPs for the most abundant species revealed genetic differentiation among localities in the Bay of Marseille but no differentiation between depths within locality. Thus, the effect of depth and PAR on cryptic species communities is not a consequence of restricted connectivity but rather due to differential settlement or survival among cryptic species. This differential is more likely driven by irradiance levels rather than by pressure or temperature. Both the genetic and species diversity patterns are congruent with the main patterns of currents in the Bay. Ecological differentiation among these engineering cryptic species, sensitive to ocean warming and acidification, could have important consequences on the diversity and structure of the coralligenous communities."	NonUS	Ecology
"It is imperative to understand the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools in tropical mangrove systems considering the diminished C storage potential and increasing nutrient loading in a global context due to rising anthropogenic disturbances. Here, we report that the Mangalavanam Coastal Wetland (MCW), a tropical mangrove stand, is a C-rich environment, with high sediment total organic carbon (70.35 +/- 23.84 mg/g) and the delta C-13 (-26.56 +/- 0.65 parts per thousand) signatures indicate that the major source of carbon in the study area is from mangrove litter. The total nitrogen concentration in the sediment (3.78 +/- 0.18 mg/g) was high despite the low N environment of mangrove ecosystems where the mangrove leaf litter was a major contributor to C. The sediment delta(15) N (7.70 +/- 0.23 parts per thousand) signatures indicated that the influence of anthropogenic N discharges and the contribution of marine algae were the primary cause of N enrichment. The mean delta C-13 and delta N-15 signatures of the mature mangrove leaves of the MCW were -28.66 +/- 1.04 parts per thousand and 5.93 +/- 0.65 parts per thousand, respectively. The mangrove dweller crab Parasesarma plicatum was observed to have enriched delta C-13 (-23.78 +/- 0.33 parts per thousand) and delta N-15 (6.54 +/- 0.35 parts per thousand) signatures, indicative of a mixed dietary source. This study provides the impetus for ongoing conservation efforts to limit the loss of carbon storage and protect against the impact of anthropogenic nitrogen loadings on lowering the carbon and nitrogen emission potential for this system, which can have implications for other tropical mangrove systems as well."	NonUS	Ecology
"Species occur in sympatric assemblages, bound together by ecological relationships and interspecific interactions. Borneo and Sumatra host some of the richest assemblages of biota worldwide. The region, however, faces the highest global deforestation rates, which seriously threaten its unique biodiversity. We used a large camera trap dataset that recorded data for 70 terrestrial species of mammals and birds, to explore the drivers of regional species richness patterns. Using a multi-scale, multivariate modelling framework which quantified the main environmental factors associated with patterns of biodiversity, while simultaneously assessing individual relationships of each species, we determined the ecological drivers of sampled biodiversity, and their contributions to community assemblages. We then mapped predicted species richness, evaluated the effectiveness of protected areas in securing biodiversity hotspots, performed gap analysis to highlight biodiverse areas lacking protection and compared our predictions with species richness maps produced by using IUCN range layers. Finally, we investigated the performance of each species as an indicator of sampled biodiversity. We demonstrate that biodiversity in Borneo and Sumatra is primarily affected by gradients of ecological and anthropogenic factors, and only marginally by topographic and spatial factors. In both islands, species are primarily associated with elevational gradients in vegetation and climate, leading to altitudinal zonation in niche separation as a major factor characterizing the islands' biodiversity. Species richness was highest in north-eastern Borneo and in western Sumatra. We found that most predicted biodiversity hotspots are not formally protected in either island; only 9.2 and 18.2% of the modelled species richness occurred within protected areas in Borneo and Sumatra, respectively. We highlighted that our prediction for Borneo performed better than, and differed drastically from, the IUCN species richness layer, while for Sumatra our modelled species richness layer and the IUCN one were similar, and both showed low predictive power. Our analysis suggests that common and generalist carnivores are the most effective indicators of sampled biodiversity and have high potential as focal, umbrella or indicator species to assist multi-species vertebrate conservation planning. Understanding existing drivers and patterns of biodiversity is critical to support the development of effective community conservation strategies in this rapidly changing region."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Background & para;& para;Taiwan had been considered rabies free since 1961, until a newly established wildlife disease surveillance program identified rabies virus transmission within the Formosan ferret-badger (Melogale moschata subaurantiaca) in 2013. Ferret-badgers occur throughout southern China and Southeast Asia, but their ecological niche is not well described.& para;& para;Methodology/Principle findings & para;& para;As an initial feasibility assessment for potential rabies control measures, field camera trapping and pen assessment of 6 oral rabies vaccine (ORV) baits were conducted in Taiwan in 2013. 46 camera nights were recorded; 6 Formosan ferret-badgers and 14 non-target mammals were sighted. No baits were consumed by ferret-badgers and 8 were consumed by non-target mammals. Penned ferret-badgers ingested 5 of the 18 offered baits. When pen and field trials were combined, and analyzed for palatability, ferret-badgers consumed 1 of 9 marshmallow baits (11.1%), 1 of 21 fishmeal baits (4.8%), 0 of 3 liver baits, and 3 of 3 fruit-flavored baits. It took an average of 261 minutes before ferret-badgers made oral contact with the non-fruit flavored baits, and 34 minutes for first contact with the fruit-based bait. Overall, ferret-badgers sought out the fruit baits 8 times faster, spent a greater proportion of time eating fruit baits, and were 7.5 times more likely to have ruptured the vaccine container of the fruit-based bait.& para;& para;Conclusions/Significance & para;& para;Ferret-badgers are now recognized as rabies reservoir species in China and Taiwan, through two independent 'dog to ferret-badger' host-shift events. Species of ferret-badgers can be found throughout Indochina, where they may be an unrecognized rabies reservoir. Findings from this initial study underscore the need for further captive and field investigations of fruit-based attractants or baits developed for small meso-carnivores. Non-target mammals' competition for baits, ants, bait design, and dense tropical landscape represent potential challenges to effective ORV programs that will need to be considered in future studies."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Globally, anthrax outbreaks pose a serious threat to people, livestock, and wildlife. Furthermore, environmental change can exacerbate these outbreak dynamics by altering the host-pathogen relationship. However, little is known about how the quantitative spatial dynamics of host movement and environmental change may affect the spread of Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax. Here, we use real-time observations and high-resolution tracking data from a population of common hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius) in Tanzania to explore the relationship between river hydrology, H. amphibius movement, and the spatiotemporal dynamics of an active anthrax outbreak. We found that extreme river drying, a consequence of anthropogenic disturbances to our study river, indirectly facilitated the spread of B. anthracis by modulating H. amphibius movements. Our findings reveal that anthrax spread upstream in the Great Ruaha River (similar to 3.5 km over a 9-day period), which followed the movement patterns of infected H. amphibius, who moved upstream as the river dried in search of remaining aquatic refugia. These upstream movements can result in large aggregations of H. amphibius. However, despite these aggregations, the density of H. amphibius in river pools did not influence the number of B. anthracis-induced mortalities. Moreover, infection by B. anthracis did not appear to influence H. amphibius movement behaviors, which suggests that infected individuals can vector B. anthracis over large distances right up until their death. Finally, we show that contact rates between H. amphibius- and B. anthracis-infected river pools are highly variable and the frequency and duration of contacts could potentially increase the probability of mortality. While difficult to obtain, the quantitative insights that we gathered during a real-time anthrax outbreak are critical to better understand, predict, and manage future outbreaks."	USA	Ecology
"Large rivers like the Elbe or the Weser are periodically entered by harbor porpoises of the North Sea. They may even move 97 km upstream to the port of Hamburg, where their presence is highest in spring. This migration is believed to be related to important anadromous prey species travelling upstream for spawning. An acoustic flowmeter in the port of Hamburg emits signals in the hearing range of harbor porpoises. The pulses have a duration of 0.2 ms, a peak frequency of 28 kHz, a source level of 210 dB re 1 mu Pa and an inter-pulse interval of 4.2 s. The signals are continuously emitted from both sides of the river at a location where the river is 400 m wide. We evaluated the potential of these signals to induce temporary threshold shift (TTS) in harbor porpoise hearing. Hearing tests with a harbor porpoise in human care were conducted to determine TTS onset. We modelled the acoustic field based on underwater noise measurements. The acoustic flowmeters emit pulses in a highly directional beam with a source level high enough for inducing TTS in harbor porpoises by a single exposure up to a distance of approximately 72 m. The received cumulative sound exposure levels for harbor porpoises travelling along the flowmeters are mainly dependent on the timing and distance to the sound source. Accordingly, a close approach to the flowmeter at the time of transmission should be prevented. This could be the case, if vessels force harbor porpoises to displace closer to the flowmeters. We therefore suggest to decrease acoustic flowmeter source levels. This case study emphasizes the need for a mandatory authorization process prior to the use of underwater sound for any purpose with potential effects on aquatic life. Such an authorization process should carefully consider potential effects for target and non-target species."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Roosting is an important component of wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo; turkey) ecology as roosts provide security from predators and inclement weather. Males call (gobble) from roosts during the reproductive season, and roost locations are important for maximizing access to females and transmission of calls across the landscape, while also minimizing predation risk. Spring hunting of male turkeys occurs during the reproductive season, and hunting activity influences male behaviors and calling. Because roost sites are important for wild turkey ecology, we evaluated roost site selection and fidelity of male turkeys relative to land cover types, vegetative characteristics, and the presence of hunting activity during 2017-2018 in Georgia, USA. Prior to onset of hunting, males selected roosts nearest to hardwood and pine (Pinus spp.) forests. Roost site fidelity was low and distances between roosts were large. After onset of hunting, males selected pine forests less and exhibited greater plasticity in roost selection while fidelity remained minimal, suggesting that males may have altered selection to mitigate risk from hunting while maintaining the strategy of moving about their ranges and roosting at different sites on consecutive nights. Future research should examine potential effects of hunting-induced shifts in resource selection on other aspects of male turkey behavior and ecology. (c) 2019 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Ecology
"Presence of humans and domestic animal species are a common threat to wildlife in protected areas. Wildlife habitat has a particularly strong human presence in the Mediterranean Basin where human population density is high. However, relatively little is known on the interaction and impact of humans on wildlife in much of the Mediterranean region. In this study, we recorded the interactions among several important wildlife species, humans, and domestic animals in a forested Mediterranean landscape in southern Turkey using camera traps. We sought to understand how the presence of humans and domestic animals such as feral dogs (Canis familiaris) and livestock impacted the behavior of the main wildlife species in the region such as caracal (Caracal caracal), fallow deer (Dama dama), and wild boar (Sus scrofa). A total of 4209 photographs from 9 species were captured over a 154-week period. Data were analyzed for both monthly and daily co-occurrences among species using multivariate and univariate techniques. Cluster analyses revealed that while human, wild boar, and fallow deer co-occupied the same area and time, other wildlife species avoided areas used by humans, feral dogs, and livestock which tended to co-occur. Regression analyses revealed that caracal inhabited the same areas as wild boar and European hare (Lepus europaeus), but avoided areas visited by humans and fallow deer on a daily basis. These results suggest that while humans and feral dogs inhabit the same area as wildlife in the region, wildlife species including top predators such as caracal avoid localities recently visited by humans and feral dogs. As a consequence, increasing human activity and feral dog populations has the potential to impact foraging, resting, and hunting behavior of local wildlife and poses a threat to the continued existence of these species in the area."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Species with biological traits favourable to long-distance marine larval dispersal might show a phylogeographic structuring over broad regions, even when they are genetically connected within smaller scales. Here, we evaluated this hypothesis by using the widespread amphidromous shrimp Atya scabra, predicting a genetic discontinuity across biogeographical barriers throughout the Western Gulf of Mexico (WGM), Caribbean Sea (CS), south-western Atlantic (SWA) and eastern Atlantic (EA). Using cytochrome oxidase subunit 1 (COI) and 16S ribosomal unit (16S) gene fragments, we did a phylogeographic assessment and genetic characterisation with Bayesian clustering, AMOVA, haplotype networks and demographic analyses. As predicted, three discrete genetic groups, corresponding to the regions WGM, CS and EA, were uncovered by COI, as well an unpredicted SWA+CS group. The 16S fragment detected a low genetic variation, probably owing to a recent lineage differentiation, which was estimated by the COI molecular clock. We evaluated the role of the biological traits of A. scabra, as well as the consequences of Panama Isthmus closure and Pleistocene glaciation cycles in the lineage isolation of WGM and EA, as well as the genetic connectivity shown within regions and between CS and SWA. Our results highlighted that amphidromous species genetically connected over large scales should be genetically characterised in their wide distribution to provide more comprehensive systematics and to assist decision-making in biological conservation."	NonUS	Genetics
"We examined spatial patterns in diet, trophic niche width and niche overlap for chum, pink and sockeye salmon across the North Pacific during 1959?1969. This is a baseline period before major hatchery enhancement occurred coinciding with a negative phase of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation. Large-scale (between regions) and fine-scale (within regions) spatial and interspecies differences were apparent. In the Western Subarctic, all species tended to consume zooplankton. In the Bering Sea, chum consumed zooplankton, while sockeye and pink alternated between zooplankton and micronekton. In the Gulf of Alaska/Eastern Subarctic, chum and sockeye specialized on gelatinous zooplankton and cephalopod prey, respectively, while pink consumed a mixture of zooplankton and micronekton. The highest diet overlap across the North Pacific was between pink and sockeye (46.6%), followed by chum and pink (31.8%), and chum and sockeye (30.9%). Greater diet specialization was evident in the Gulf of Alaska/Eastern Subarctic compared to the Western Pacific. Generally, species had higher niche width and overlap in areas of high prey availability, and this was particularly evident for chum salmon. In addition to the large-scale trophic patterns, our data revealed novel fine-scale spatial patterns, including latitudinal, onshore-offshore, and cross-gyre gradients. Our results showed that pink tended to be more generalist consumers, and their diets may be a better reflection of overall prey presence and abundance in the environment. Conversely, chum and sockeye tended to be more specialist consumers, and their diets may provide a better reflection of interspecies dynamics or prey availability. This study provides a baseline for comparison with current and future changes in salmon marine ecology and North Pacific ecosystems. Finally, we identify two important data gaps that need addressing, that of improved taxonomic resolution diet data for Pacific salmon and focused research on sub-mesoscale oceanographic features that may play an important role in salmon health and productivity."	NonUS	Ecology
"The results of investigation of the bottom sediments sampled in the Balaklava Bay in February and June, 2015 are represented. The grain-size distribution, and the organic carbon (C-org) and calcium carbonate (CaCO3) content have been studied. Noticeable change in the fractions' content that took place in course of the last 10 years is revealed. To a greater extent it is referred to the sand or gravel material, its quantitative characteristics and the features of its spatial distribution. As for the silt material in the Balaklava Bay sediments, its content, according to all the samples, grew, on the whole, from 58 to 66 %. The changes in the organic carbon abundance that took place in the bottom sediments in 2005-2015 were comparatively analyzed both for the Balaklava Bay and other water areas of the Heraklion Peninsula. A general tendency of the organic matter abundance to decrease in the bottom sediments of the bay was noted; it is treated as a result of some alteration in the anthropogenic pressure. The organic carbon mean concentration in the Balaklava Bay bottom sediments is two to three times lower than that in the other bays of the region which were subjected to permanent anthropogenic pressure. However, pollution of the Balaklava Bay with the untreated municipal, storm and industrial sewages leads to formation of the local bottom zones where the sediments are saturated with organic matter (C-org>2.5 %). Such phenomena can exert a negative impact on the state of the marine environment ecology including, in particular, structural deviations in the macrozoobenthos community. Further decrease of the organic matter abundance is possible only in case the pollution basic sources are either completely removed or, at least, their influence is reduced. Such a condition is indispensable due to its extreme importance for implementing the state plan to turn the Balaklava Bay into a recreational area and a yacht marina."	NonUS	Ecology
"The spatially and temporally explicit mapping of critical natural capital (CNC) is an essential step toward supporting policies and practices for improving the CNC-derived human well-being. The Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP) is a natural habitat for wildlife and a critical water tower region for Asia. It is ecologically fragile, but still provides abundant CNC. The effectiveness of key protected areas in the QTP in terms of representing CNC remains largely unknown. In this study, we adapted a multi-criteria biophysical approach for CNC mapping from 2000 to 2015 that quantitatively integrates four CNC functional components, including carbon capture, soil protection, water and nutrient retention, and habitat provision. The CNC priority conservation areas and their conservation effectiveness are quantified based on CNC assessment and mapping. The results showed that: (1) CNC conservation priority areas accounted for 37.96% of the QTP, but only about one fifth accommodated in the national nature reserves (NNRs); (2) compared with the non-reserve areas and the whole QTP, NNRs have a better promotion effect on CNC with spatial heterogeneity; and (3) 60.81% of the core zones of NNRs showed a significant increase in CNC, which was 7.44% and 5.13% higher than those of the buffer area and the experimental area, respectively. The study contributes to the policy goals on the spatial optimization of nature conservation. Our method for assessing the CNC functional components can be easily adapted to broad spatial scales, as well as for tasks such as conservation priority-setting or effectiveness assessments for protected areas with CNC as key targets."	NonUS	Conservation
"This study isolated and characterized a new phage infecting the marine photoheterotrophic bacterium Citromicrobium bathyomarinum, which fills the gap in research on phages targeting this ecologically important species. The phage vB_CbaS-RXM (RXM) has a dsDNA genome with a length of 104,206 bp and G+C content of 61.64%. The taxonomic analysis found a close evolutionary relationship between RXM, Erythrobacter phage vB_EliS-L02, and Sphingobium phage Lacusarx, and we propose that RXM represents a new species of the Lacusarxvirus genus. A one-step growth curve revealed a burst size of 75 plaque-forming units (PFUs) per cell in a 3-hour infection cycle. The lysis profile of RXM showed an intraspecific lethal rate of 26.3% against 38 citromicrobial strains. RXM contains 15 auxiliary metabolic genes (AMGs) related to diverse cellular processes, such as putative metabolic innovation and hijacking of host nucleotide metabolism to enhance its biosynthetic capacity. An in-depth analysis showed that phage functional genes strongly rely on the host for translation, while the translation of unique phage genes with less host dependency may be complemented by phage tRNA. Overall, our study investigated the infection kinetics, genetic traits, taxonomy, and predicted roles of AMGs and tRNA genes of this new phage, which contributes to a better understanding of phage diversity and phage-bacterium interactions."	NonUS	Ecology
"Cities are not often considered priority areas for threatened mammals; however, recent research suggests that urban areas may be important for water vole (Arvicola amphibius) conservation. To establish the potential importance of cities in supporting water vole populations, we used National Biodiversity Network (NBN) Atlas data to examine the occurrence of water voles within the United Kingdom (UK). Water voles were recorded in 28 out of 64 official UK cities in the last decade (2010-2018), and rivers and streams within parks, sports grounds, and urban reserves were the most important habitat types. In total, we found 497 records of water vole sightings within official cities, representing 5.0% of all records for this species in the NBN Atlas. Our results show that water voles are indeed found within many cities, suggesting that urban populations of water voles are more common in the UK than previously recognised. We therefore recommend that the importance of these urban populations for conservation of this species should be further established."	NonUS	Conservation
"The Cheboygan River, Michigan, is the only tributary to the upper Great Lakes where sea lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) are known to complete their entire life cycle. The Upper and Lower reaches are separated by the Cheboygan Lock and Dam located about 2 km from Lake Huron. In the Upper River, the Pigeon, Sturgeon, and Maple Rivers provide nursery habitat for larval sea lamprey. Burt and Mullett Lakes provide feeding grounds for juvenile sea lamprey. Low levels of immigration from Lake Huron occur when adult sea lamprey bypass the lock and dam. Lampricide treatment in the Pigeon, Sturgeon, and Maple Rivers began in 1966 and 15 treatments have been conducted to date at a combined cost of $435,000 USD per treatment. Treatments may become more difficult due to recent dam removals in the Pigeon (2016) and Maple Rivers (2018) that expanded habitat available to valued fishes and sea lamprey. At present, the landlocked population is less than 200 spawning adults, and those adults are generally smaller and may spawn earlier in the spring than adult sea lamprey from Lake Huron. Frequency of sea lamprey-induced wounding on steelhead (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and northern pike (Esox lucius) in Mullett Lake is less than 5%. Given increasing challenges of lampricide treatment, efforts to test other means of control such as sterile male release technique is on-going. The Cheboygan River represents a microcosm of the Great Lakes and is useful for learning about sea lamprey ecology and testing controls that supplement lampricides and barriers. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of International Association for Great Lakes Research 2020. The contribution to this work by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) author was provided as part of the USGS authors official duties as an employee of the United States Government, and this contribution is a work of the United States Government. In accordance with 17 U.S.C. 105, no copyright protection is available for such works under U.S. Law and the CC BY license shall therefore not apply to the USGS authors contribution to the work. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)."	USA	Fisheries
"The relationships between clam gardens and human settlement throughout the millennia reflects the inseparable links among human demographics, marine management systems, and the social-ecological contexts in which they are embedded. However, it can be difficult to assign causation between the initiation and development of eco-cultural innovations like clam gardens and the proliferation of human societies due to the temporal uncertainties associated with both. Here, we bring together data on the shape of the local relative sea level curve, clam garden wall elevation as determined by GIS and drone imagery, radiocarbon dates of clam garden walls, and ecological and archaeological field observations, to assign proxy ages for the clam garden walls of different tidal heights in Kanish and Waiatt Bay on northern Quadra Island, British Columbia, Canada. These data, combined with our mapping and dating of settlement sites, demonstrate a temporal relationship between clam garden building effort and the densification of human settlements. In Kanish Bay, where we have high resolution data, clam gardens begin to be constructed in significant numbers at least 3,800 years ago; this corresponds to a time of increased establishment of large human settlements. The corresponding increase in settlements and clam gardens reflects both the need to increase sustainable food production and the larger number of people who could sustain the ecological and social foundations of the production system. The correlation between number and area of clam gardens and the number of new, large settlements continues until & SIM;2000 years ago. After this time, existing settlements increase in size, but no additional large settlements were established. New clam gardens continue to be built but in seemingly lower numbers. This shift in settlements and clam gardens suggest that a threshold in social-ecological carrying capacity may have been reached in this land- and seascape. In the last few centuries, there is a dramatic decline in the number of clam gardens and evidence of human settlement, corresponding to social and ecological changes associated with European colonization. Taken together, these data demonstrate the strong linkages among Indigenous peoples, their lands and seas, and resilient food systems over the millennia."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Biocides of antifouling agents can cause problems in marine ecosystems by damaging to non-target algal species. Aquatic bioassays are important means of assessing the quality of water containing mixtures of contaminants and of providing a safety standard for water management in an ecological context. In this study, a rapid, sensitive and inexpensive test method was developed using free-living male and female gametophytes of the brown macroalga Undaria pinnatifida. A conventional fluorometer was employed to evaluate the acute (48 h) toxic effects of six antifouling biocides: 4,5-Dichloro-2-octyl-isothiazolone (DCOIT), diuron, irgarol, medetomidine, tolylfluanid, zinc pyrithione (ZnPT). The decreasing toxicity in male and female gametophytes as estimated by EC50 (effective concentration at which 50% inhibition occurs) values was: diuron (0.037 and 0.128 mg l(-1), respectively) > irgarol (0.096 and 0.172 mg l(-1), respectively) > tolylfluanid (0.238 and 1.028 mg l(-1), respectively) > DCOIT (1.015 and 0.890 mg l(-1), respectively) > medetomidine (12.032 and 12.763 mg l(-1), respectively). For ZnPT, 50% fluorescence inhibition of U. pinnatifida gametophytes occurred at concentrations above 0.4 mg l(-1). The Undaria method is rapid, simple, practical, and cost-effective for the detection of photosynthesis-inhibiting biocides, thus making a useful tool for testing the toxicity of antifouling agents in marine environments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Interactions between corals and macroalgae are important in influencing benthic community structures on coral reefs and have become increasingly common occurrences. However, little is known about their temporal variation as most studies have only documented them from single surveys. To investigate the dynamics of coral-macroalgal interactions, we surveyed three urbanised reefs in Singapore bi-monthly for three years. We found that the frequency of coral-macroalgal interactions varied greatly across sites and seasons. The extent of coral-macroalgal contact was positively correlated with macroalgal abundance, but the correlation differed significantly among macroalgal genera. The growth rates of Goniopora, Montipora and Pavona corals, but not Platygra, were also negatively correlated with the extent of macroalgal interactions. Overall, our results highlight that coral-macroalgal interactions are spatially and temporally dynamic, with varying effects among coral species. It is critical to consider seasonal fluctuations of macroalgae if the overall long-term impacts of macroalgae are to be understood."	NonUS	Ecology
"Although evidence-based approaches have become commonplace for determining the success of conservation measures for the management of threatened taxa, there are no standard metrics for assessing progress in research or management. We developed 5 metrics to meet this need for threatened taxa and to quantify the need for further action and effective alleviation of threats. These metrics (research need, research achievement, management need, management achievement, and percent threat reduction) can be aggregated to examine trends for an individual taxon or for threats across multiple taxa. We tested the utility of these metrics by applying them to Australian threatened birds, which appears to be the first time that progress in research and management of threats has been assessed for all threatened taxa in a faunal group at a continental scale. Some research has been conducted on nearly three-quarters of known threats to taxa, and there is a clear understanding of how to alleviate nearly half of the threats with the highest impact. Some management has been attempted on nearly half the threats. Management outcomes ranged from successful trials to complete mitigation of the threat, including for one-third of high-impact threats. Progress in both research and management tended to be greater for taxa that were monitored or occurred on oceanic islands. Predation by cats had the highest potential threat score. However, there has been some success reducing the impact of cat predation, so climate change (particularly drought), now poses the greatest threat to Australian threatened birds. Our results demonstrate the potential for the proposed metrics to encapsulate the major trends in research and management of both threats and threatened taxa and provide a basis for international comparisons of evidence-based conservation science."	NonUS	Conservation
"Seagrass meadows underpin a variety of ecosystem services and are recognized as globally important habitats and a conservation priority. However, seagrass populations are currently impacted by a range of biotic and abiotic stressors, and many are in decline globally. As such, improved understanding of seagrass populations and their associated faunal assemblages is needed to better detect and predict changes in the structure and functioning of these key habitats. Here, we analyzed a large dataset-collected by recreational scuba divers volunteering on a citizen science project-to examine spatiotemporal patterns in ecological structure and to provide a robust and reliable baseline against which to detect future change. Seagrass (Zostera marina) shoot density and the abundance of associated faunal groups were quantified across 2 years at 19 sites nested within three locations in southwest UK, by collecting in situ quadrat samples (2,518 in total) during 328 dives. Seagrass shoot density and meadow fragmentation was comparable across locations but was highly variable among sites. Faunal abundance and assemblage structure varied between areas with or without seagrass shoots; this pattern was largely consistent between locations and years. Overall, increased seagrass density was related to increased faunal abundance and explained shifts in faunal assemblage structure, although individual faunal groups were affected differently. More broadly, our study shows that well-funded and orchestrated citizen science projects can, to some extent, gather fundamental information needed to benchmark ecological structure in poorly studied nearshore marine habitats."	NonUS	Ecology
"Tropical forests are rich in biodiversity with great potential for carbon (C) storage. We estimated ecosystem-level C stock using data from 70 forest plots in three major forest types: tropical dry deciduous (TDD I and TDD II), tropical semi-evergreen (TSE I and TSE II) and tropical evergreen forests (TEF I, TEF II and TEF III) of Kanyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary, Western Ghats, India. The average C stock in these forests was 336.8 Mg C/ha, of which 231.3, 3.0, 2.4, 15.2 and 84.9 Mg C/ha were stored in woody vegetation, understorey, litter, deadwood and soil respectively. The live vegetation, detritus and soil contributed 65.5%, 5.5% and 29% respectively to the total ecosystem-level C stock and distributed in forest types in the order: TEF III>TEF II>TEF I>TSE I>TDD II>TSE II>TDD I. The plant diversity, structural attributes and environmental factors showed significant positive correlations with C stocks and accounted for 6.7, 77.2 and 16% of variance. These findings indicate that the tropical forests in the Western Ghats store large amount of C, and resulting data are invaluable for planning and monitoring forest conservation and management programs to enhance C storage in tropical forests."	NonUS	Conservation
"Rapid environmental change is reshaping ecosystems and driving species loss globally. Carnivore populations have declined and retracted rapidly and have been the target of numerous translocation projects. Success, however, is complicated when these efforts occur in novel ecosystems. Identifying refuges, locations that are resistant to environmental change, within a translocation framework should improve population recovery and persistence. American martens (Martes americana) are the most frequently translocated carnivore in North America. As elsewhere, martens were extirpated across much of the Great Lakes region by the 1930s and, despite multiple translocations beginning in the 1950s, martens remain of regional conservation concern. Surprisingly, martens were rediscovered in 2014 on the Apostle Islands of Lake Superior after a putative absence of >40 yr. To identify the source of martens to the islands and understand connectivity of the reintroduction network, we collected genetic data on martens from the archipelago and from all regional reintroduction sites. In total, we genotyped 483 individual martens, 43 of which inhabited the Apostle Islands (densities 0.42-1.46 km(-2)). Coalescent analyses supported the contemporary recolonization of the Apostle Islands with progenitors likely originating from Michigan, which were sourced from Ontario. We also identified movements by a first-order relative between the Apostle Islands and the recovery network. We detected some regional gene flow, but in an unexpected direction: individuals moving from the islands to the mainland. Our findings suggest that the Apostle Islands were naturally recolonized by progeny of translocated individuals and now act as a source back to the reintroduction sites on the mainland. We suggest that the Apostle Islands, given its protection from disturbance, complex forest structure, and reduced carnivore competition, will act as a potential refuge for marten along their trailing range boundary and a central node for regional recovery. Our work reveals that translocations, even those occurring along southern range boundaries, can create recovery networks that function like natural metapopulations. Identifying refuges, locations that are resistant to environmental change, within these recovery networks can further improve species recovery, even within novel environments. Future translocation planning should a priori identify potential refuges and sources to improve short-term recovery and long-term persistence."	USA	Conservation
"Green algal blooms by Cladophora species are primarily reported in freshwater and coastal regions and cause severe ecological problems. A taxonomic report of the geographic distribution of Cladophora blooms is essential to explore the cause and impact of macroalgal blooms and for eco-physiological studies. The identification of blooming species is necessary for monitoring and controlling algal blooms. Genetic information of DNA sequences is useful for identifying species in the genus Cladophora. In the coastal area of Sangrok, Korea, a large-scale Cladophora bloom was reported for the first time in September 2015. In the present study, we identified the taxonomic entity of Cladophora oligocladoidea (Ulvophyceae, Cladophorales) in Korea. We report for the first time a green algal bloom by this species globally. This is the second report about genetic diversity of C. oligocladoidea since the species was established in Japan. Four ribotypes in the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA represent the genetic diversity of Korean C. oligocladoidea. The results from this taxonomic report and our analysis of the green algal bloom of Korean C. oligocladoidea can provide valuable data to understand the geographic distribution and the genetic diversity of the species."	NonUS	Genetics
"Despite an increasing awareness of disease impacts on both cultivated and native seaweed populations, the development of marine probiotics has been limited and predominately focused on farmed animals. Bleaching (loss of thallus pigmentation) is one of the most prevalent diseases observed in marine macroalgae. Endemic probiotic bacteria have been characterized to prevent bleaching disease in red macroalgae Agarophyton vermiculophyllum and Delisea pulchra; however, the extent to which probiotic strains provide cross-protection to non-endemic hosts and the influence of native microbiota remain unknown. Using A. vermiculophyllum as a model, we demonstrate that co-inoculation with the pathogen Pseudoalteromonas arctica G-MAN6 and D. pulchra probiotic strain Phaeobacter sp. BS52 or Pseudoalteromonas sp. PB2-1 reduced the disease risks compared to the pathogen only treatment. Moreover, non-endemic probiotics outperformed the endemic probiotic strain Ralstonia sp. G-NY6 in the presence of the host natural microbiota. This study highlights how the native microbiota can impact the effectiveness of marine probiotics and illustrates the potential of harnessing probiotics that can function across different hosts to mitigate the impact of emerging marine diseases."	NonUS	Technology
"Asian box turtles (genus Cuora; Geoemydidae) are among the most threatened Asian turtles. Here, we present (i) a field investigation from 2014-2018 on the Cuora individuals traded by high-level traders in six provinces of Vietnam and (ii) the estimated numbers of traded individuals determined through interviews with traders. In addition, we (iii) provide an analysis of the confiscated individuals that were carried out at the main wildlife rescue centre of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Overall, the number of traded individuals observed was relatively small (n = 481), with C. bourreti being by far the most frequently observed in trade. During the same period, the interviewed traders estimated that about 3,400 individuals were traded through the period 2014-2018, most of them being C. bourreti. During 2010-2018, a total of 281 individuals were carried to the wildlife rescue centre, with over 60 % of the total rescued individuals being C. galbinifrons. Overall, the numbers of traded Cuora individuals recorded in the present study were very small compared to the huge estimates from other Asian countries. However, this lower traded number does not imply that the status' of the target species are not affected, as their population sizes are already catastrophically reduced in Vietnam."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Passive integrated transponder (PIT) tag technology permits the resighting of animals tagged for ecological research without the need for physical re-trapping. Whilst this is effective if animals pass within centimeters of tag readers, short-distance detection capabilities have prevented the use of this technology with many species. To address this problem, we optimized a large (15 m long) flexible antenna system to provide a c. 8 m(2) vertical detection plane for detecting animals in flight. We installed antennas at two roosting caves, including the primary maternity cave, of the critically endangered southern bent-winged bat (Miniopterus orianae bassanii) in south-eastern Australia. Testing of these systems indicated PIT-tags could be detected up to 105 cm either side of the antenna plane. Over the course of a three-year study, we subcutaneously PIT-tagged 2,966 bats and logged over 1.4 million unique detections, with 97% of tagged bats detected at least once. The probability of encountering a tagged bat decreased with increasing environmental noise (unwanted signal) perceived by the system. During the study, we mitigated initial high noise levels by earthing both systems, which contributed to an increase in daily detection probability (based on the proportion of individuals known to be alive that were detected each day) from <0.2 (noise level >= 30%) to 0.7-0.8 (noise level 5%-15%). Conditional on a low (5%) noise level, model-based estimates of daily encounter probability were highest (>0.8) during peak breeding season when both female and male southern bent-winged bats congregate at the maternity cave. In this paper, we detail the methods employed and make methodological recommendations for future wildlife research using large antennas, including earthing systems as standard protocol and quantifying noise metrics as a covariate influencing the probability of detection in subsequent analyses. Our results demonstrate that large PIT antennas can be used successfully to detect small volant species, extending the scope of PIT technology and enabling a much broader range of wildlife species to be studied using this approach."	NonUS	Technology
"A select group of marine organisms can enter the Oxygen Minimum Zones (OMZs) and even anoxic waters, while performing diel vertical migration (DVM). DVM of the euphausiid Euphausia eximia off northern Chile in the spring of 2015 was documented based on acoustic measurements using an echo sounder along with net samplings. Dissolved oxygen (DO) concentrations were obtained using a vertical profiler, and water samples were collected to obtain in situ nitrite (NO2-) concentrations as well as pH(T), total alkalinity (AT), and therefore carbon dioxide partial pressure (pCO(2)) was estimated. Krill were found to migrate up to the surface (0-50 m) during the night and returned to ca. 200-300 m depth during the day, spending between 11 and 14 h at these layers. At the surface, DO and NO2- concentrations were 208 and 0.14 mu M respectively, while pH(T) was 8.04 and 405 mu atm pCO(2). In contrast, at the deeper layers (200-300 m), DO and NO2- were<3 and 6.3 <mu>M respectively, with pH(T) 7.53 and 1490 mu atm pCO(2). The pH(T) and high pCO(2) values at depths represent the conditions predicted for open ocean waters in a worst-case global warming scenario by 2150. The acoustic scatter suggested that>60% of the krill swarms enter the OMZ and anoxic waters during the daytime. These frequent migrations suggest that krill can tolerate such extreme conditions associated with anoxic and high-pCO(2) waters. The inferences drawn from the observation of these migrations might have strong implications for the current oceanic carbon pump models, highlighting the need for understanding the molecular and physiological adaptations allowing these migrations."	NonUS	Ecology
"Forest biodiversity is declining due to a wide variety of anthropogenic factors. Forest and wildlife management can be part of the problem or part of the solution. Our objective was to examine the influence of white-tailed deer exclusion on the response of understory communities to a gradient in overstory disturbance. We expected that greater overstory disturbance would act synergistically with deer exclusion to increase understory species richness and abundance. In northern Wisconsin, USA, we monitored changes in understory vegetation in a temperate hardwood forest following four overstory treatments (no-harvest controls and three gap sizes) and two deer treatments (deer access or exclostffe). By the seventh year following gap creation, understory species richness and the abundance of multiple species groups had increased, especially when deer were excluded. Effects were most pronounced in larger gaps, particularly among saplings of less shade-tolerant tree species. The tree seedling community responded similarly, but less strongly, to treatments. In contrast, change in the shortstature shrub and herbaceous community seven years following gap and deer treatments was limited and species-specific. Environmental conditions at the groundlayer, such as light availability and soil moisture content, rarely differed by treatment in our study. Increased density of understory vegetation at seven years post-treatment may have negated early pulses in resource availability resulting from gap creation. Gap creation alone increased species richness and abundance of woody taxa, whereas deer exclusion alone had little effect on the understory community. When treatments were applied in combination, we saw the greatest change in the plant community. Our study provides evidence that, when accompanied by a reduction in deer population density, relatively intense overstory disturbance (e.g., group-selection harvest) may be an effective management strategy for restoring forest heterogeneity."	USA	Biodiversity
"Heterocapsa is a genus of dinoflagellates including species that can form harmful algae blooms (HABs) and cause deleterious ecological effects. To date two species ( H circularisquama and H bohaiensis) are known to be toxic. Here we isolated three strains of Heterocapsa from a multi-species dinoflagellate bloom in the aquaculture area of Fujian, China in June, 2019 that caused mass mortality of farmed abalone. Morphological analysis using light, transmission electron and scanning electron microscopy along with phylogenetic analyses with small (SSU) and large (LSU) subunit rRNA and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) gene sequences showed that these strains were H. cf. niei H. horiguchii, and H. cf. pygmaea, respectively. Furthermore, rabbit erythrocyte assay revealed hemolytic activity in all three strains in cell density dependent fashion, and only in the presence of light. In addition, the strains caused significant mortality of Artemia salina, and the toxicity was also cell density dependent. The Heterocapsa cultures and toxicity information obtained in this study expanded our knowledge of toxic species of Heterocapsa, and will facilitate further investigating the mechanism of their toxicity and developing monitoring tools for their blooms in the future."	NonUS	Ecology
"Elevated organic matter (OM) export flux promotes marine anoxia, thus increasing carbon sequestration efficiency and decreasing atmospheric carbon dioxide levels. However, the mechanisms that trigger and sustain anoxic events-particularly those associated with nutrient-poor, oligotrophic surface waters-remain poorly constrained. Mediterranean Sea sapropels are well-preserved sediments deposited during episodic anoxic events throughout the Plio-Pleistocene; as such, they may provide unique insight into the biogeochemical and ecological drivers of-and responses to-marine anoxia. Using biomarker distributions, we demonstrate that anaerobic ammonium oxidizing (anammox) bacteria and diazotrophic endosymbionts of mat- and/or raft-forming diatoms were both abundant during sapropel events, particularly in the Ionian and Libyan seas. In these sapropels, the carbon isotope compositions of anammox biomarkers directly capture progressive C-13-depletion in deep-water dissolved inorganic carbon, indicating sustained carbon sequestration. To explain these observations, we propose a reinforcing feedback whereby initial nutrient and/or circulation perturbations promote fixed nitrogen loss via intensified anammox and heterotrophic denitrification, which in turn favors proliferation of rapidly sinking diatom-diazotroph symbiotic consortia, increases OM burial flux, and sustains anoxia. This mechanism resolves the long-standing conundrum that small and buoyant diazotrophs are apparently associated with high OM export during periods of marine anoxia and oligotrophy. (C) 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V."	USA	Ecology
"This work is focused on the chemical characterization of the organic residues preserved in ceramic fragments that are suspected to have been used by the Basque whalers in the period from 16th to 17th Century to store whale oil. The lipid profiling along with the identification of biomolecular markers, makes possible to obtain information on the contents of the vessels and on the transformations undergone by the organic substances during the burial process. To achieve this goal, two complementary analytical techniques, High-Performance Liquid Chromatography - Electrospray Ionization - Quadrupole Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-QToF) and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS), were used not only to study the archaeological materials but also fresh whale oil products used as reference materials with the aim to detect potential diagnostic biomarkers. HPLC-ESI-QToF was used to identify triacylglycerols (TAGs) and study their distribution in the various samples, whereas GC-MS after suitable derivatization provided the fatty acid (FA) profile together with the detection of degradation compounds (dicarboxylic and dihydroxy fatty acids) and biomarkers related to marine commodities (isoprenoid adds). Samples of blubber from 5 different whale species belonging to the genus Balaenoptera (fin, sei and minke whale), Megaptera (Humpback whale) and Phocoena (harbour porpoise) were used as reference materials together with a sample of whale oil of unknown origin. The chemical results confirm the archaeological data regarding the vessels use as containers to store whale oil and indicate the whales from Balaenoptera genus as the most probable source of the oil. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Technology
"The ingestion of anthropogenic marine debris can lead to injuries in the digestive system of marine turtles through blockages, lacerations and enteritis, as well as sub-lethal effects from bioaccumulation of adhered chemicals and toxic substances leached out into tissues and blood. The early detection of these impacts is central for the treatment and recovery of turtles in a rehabilitation setting. In this study, we provide baseline data on gastrointestinal transit times in healthy green turtles (Chelonia mydas) to enable non-intrusive detection of digestive motility disorders. We conducted two experiments with juvenile green turtles (N = 14) (curved carapace length range 33.7-47.0 cm) using inorganic (inert plastic discs) and organic (corn kernels) markers respectively, in order to estimate gastrointestinal transit times and assess the effectiveness of each marker type in recording them. Gastrointestinal transit times for the inorganic marker trial group (n = 6 turtles) ranged from 14.6 +/- SD 3.6 days for the first markers recovered to 22.5 +/- SD 4.2 days for the last markers recovered. The corresponding data for the organic marker trial group (n = 8 turtles) ranged from 6.63 +/- SD 1.6 days to 17.3 +/- SD 3.3 days respectively. We obtained 96% recovery success of markers in the inorganic marker trial versus 72.5% in the organic marker trial. Thus, inorganic markers proved to be more efficient in reporting gastrointestinal transit times because they do not degrade or discolour as they pass along the digestive process, enabling higher recovery success. Opportunistically, veterinarians diagnosed an obstruction caused by plastic fragments, which had been swallowed in the wild prior to the trial, in one of the experimental animals after we failed to recover any markers. This incident is evidence that gastrointestinal transit time assessment is a useful approach for providing early warning of digestive system blockages. Furthermore, this knowledge on transit times could be of interest for toxicology studies regarding exposure to chemicals lixiviated from debris ingested, as an index of the time spent by these substances inside the organism."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Simple Summary Marine sponges contain associated microorganisms in high numbers. This study gives insight into how environmental conditions such as light availability affects the symbiotic relationship between phototrophic bacteria that obtain energy from sunlight for the synthesis of organic compounds and the marine host in which they are found. A controlled aquarium experiment with defined light levels ranging from darkness to higher light intensity demonstrates how light conditions change the number of these bacteria and, consequently, host performance. Sponge growth performance was significantly affected by the number of these bacteria. Moreover, the common blue aquarium sponge Lendenfeldia chondrodes has proven to be perfectly suited as a model organism to study marine host-symbiont interactions. Bacterial symbionts in marine sponges play a decisive role in the biological and ecological functioning of their hosts. Although this topic has been the focus of numerous studies, data from experiments under controlled conditions are rare. To analyze the ongoing metabolic processes, we investigated the symbiosis of the sponge specific cyanobacterium Synechococcus spongiarum and its sponge host Lendenfeldia chondrodes under varying light conditions in a defined aquarium setting for 68 days. Sponge clonal pieces were kept at four different light intensities, ranging from no light to higher intensities that were assumed to trigger light stress. Growth as a measure of host performance and photosynthetic yield as a proxy of symbiont photosynthetic activity were measured throughout the experiment. The lack of light prevented sponge growth and induced the expulsion of all cyanobacteria and related pigments by the end of the experiment. Higher light conditions allowed rapid sponge growth and high cyanobacteria densities. In addition, photosynthetically active radiation above a certain level triggered an increase in cyanobacteria's lutein levels, a UV absorbing protein, thus protecting itself and the host's cells from UV radiation damage. Thus, L. chondrodes seems to benefit strongly from hosting the cyanbacterium S. spongiarum and the relationship should be considered obligatory mutualistic."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding the interactions among invasive species, native species and marine protected areas (MPAs), and the long-term regime shifts in MPAs is receiving increased attention, since biological invasions can alter the structure and functioning of the protected ecosystems and challenge conservation efforts. Here we found evidence of marked modifications in the rocky reef associated biota in a Mediterranean MPA from 2009 to 2019 through visual census surveys, due to the presence of invasive species altering the structure of the ecosystem and triggering complex cascading effects on the long term. Low levels of the populations of native high-level predators were accompanied by the population increase and high performance of both native and invasive fish herbivores. Subsequently the overgrazing and habitat degradation resulted in cascading effects towards the diminishing of the native and invasive invertebrate grazers and omnivorous benthic species. Our study represents a good showcase of how invasive species can coexist or exclude native biota and at the same time regulate or out-compete other established invaders and native species."	NonUS	Conservation
"BackgroundMarine bacteria form complex relationships with eukaryotic hosts, from obligate symbioses to pathogenic interactions. These interactions can be tightly regulated by bioactive molecules, creating a complex system of chemical interactions through which these species chemically communicate thereby directly altering the host's physiology and community composition. Quorum sensing (QS) signals were first described in a marine bacterium four decades ago, and since then, we have come to discover that QS mediates processes within the marine carbon cycle, affects the health of coral reef ecosystems, and shapes microbial diversity and bacteria-eukaryotic host relationships. Yet, only recently have alkylquinolone signals been recognized for their role in cell-to-cell communication and the orchestration of virulence in biomedically relevant pathogens. The alkylquinolone, 2-heptyl-4-quinolone (HHQ), was recently found to arrest cell growth without inducing cell mortality in selected phytoplankton species at nanomolar concentrations, suggesting QS molecules like HHQ can influence algal physiology, playing pivotal roles in structuring larger ecological frameworks.ResultsTo understand how natural communities of phytoplankton and bacteria respond to HHQ, field-based incubation experiments with ecologically relevant concentrations of HHQ were conducted over the course of a stimulated phytoplankton bloom. Bulk flow cytometry measurements indicated that, in general, exposure to HHQ caused nanoplankton and prokaryotic cell abundances to decrease. Amplicon sequencing revealed HHQ exposure altered the composition of particle-associated and free-living microbiota, favoring the relative expansion of both gamma- and alpha-proteobacteria, and a concurrent decrease in Bacteroidetes. Specifically, Pseudoalteromonas spp., known to produce HHQ, increased in relative abundance following HHQ exposure. A search of representative bacterial genomes from genera that increased in relative abundance when exposed to HHQ revealed that they all have the genetic potential to bind HHQ.ConclusionsThis work demonstrates HHQ has the capacity to influence microbial community organization, suggesting alkylquinolones have functions beyond bacterial communication and are pivotal in driving microbial community structure and phytoplankton growth. Knowledge of how bacterial signals alter marine communities will serve to deepen our understanding of the impact these chemical interactions have on a global scale."	USA	Ecology
"Many piscivorous fish species are depleted and/or threatened around the world. Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are tools for conservation and fisheries management, though there is still controversy regarding the best design for increasing their ecological effectiveness. Here, on the basis of a weighted meta-analytical approach, we have assessed the effect of 32 MPAs, distributed worldwide, on the biomass and density of piscivorous fishes. We analysed the MPA features and the biological, commercial and ecological characteristics of fishes that may affect the response of species to protection. We found a positive effect on the biomass and density of piscivores inside MPAs. This effect was stronger for the biomass of medium-sized fishes (in relation to the maximum size reported for the species) and the density of large and gregarious species. The size of the no-take zone had a significant negative impact on both response variables and differed according to the level of enforcement, with smaller no-take zones having higher levels of enforcement. Thus, MPAs help to protect piscivorous fish species, with smaller, but well enforced reserves being more effective for the protection of the local populations of piscivorous fishes throughout the world."	NonUS	Conservation
"Western monarch butterflies dropped by similar to 97% of their average historic abundance between the 1980s and mid-2010s. In winter 2018-2019, the population plummeted even farther, to fewer than 30,000 monarchs, which represents a single year drop of 86% and a drop of >99% since the 1980s. The population may now be hovering at its quasi-extinction threshold. In this Perspectives piece, we: (1) Place the current status in context, (2) Highlight the most likely window during the annual life cycle when the population declined, (3) Review probable causes of long-term declines, and (4) Recommend steps that the public, policy makers, and land managers can take to recover western monarchs. The available studies reinforce the hypotheses that overwintering habitat loss and loss of central California breeding habitat, as well as pesticide use, are likely important contributors to the western monarch's long-term decline. The most limiting part of the migratory cycle appears to be concentrated during the overwintering stage and/or in early spring. If western monarchs are in fact entering an extinction vortex, they need extraordinary efforts-focused on the most vulnerable periods of the annual cycle- to save the migration. Critical short-term conservation priorities are to (1) Protect, manage and restore overwintering habitat, (2) Protect monarchs and their habitat from pesticides, (3) Restore breeding and migratory habitat in California, (4) Protect, manage, and restore summer breeding and fall migration monarch habitat throughout the western monarch's range, and (5) Fill research gaps to inform western monarch recovery strategies."	USA	Conservation
"Restricted from its historic freshwater input from the Everglades, the Florida Bay estuary is plagued by hypersaline conditions and disturbances such as aperiodic seagrass die-off events. One of the largest restoration efforts in the US, the Comprehensive Everglades restoration Program (CERP) aims to restore the freshwater inputs lost. Providing world-renowned recreational fishing opportunities and nursery habitat for valuable commercial fisheries, the bay's condition, coupled with the potential changes from CERP and future climate, highlight the need to implement an ecosystem-based management (EBM) approach. We developed a comprehensive ecosystem model of Florida Bay using Ecopath with Ecosim to provide a thorough understanding of its structure and resilience to environmental disturbances. The results supported the hypothesis that the bay is stabilised through detrital pathways but is not driven primarily through bottom-up control as predicted. Several predator-prey relationships are identified for suggested ecological attention in fisheries management, including the ecological benefits of the forage species pink shrimp, clupeids, pinfish and mullets, and a negative top-down effect of common snook on red drum. The results further support the hypothesis that the restoration of freshwater flows will improve overall resilience in Florida Bay, namely by providing a regime of lower salinity and reduced nutrient enrichment."	USA	Conservation
"The impact of large-scale oil spills on organisms can lead to modifications of the food web structure. To assess the effects of the Hebei Spirit oil-spill accident on the trophic structure of the macrobenthic community on intertidal rocky shores along Taean Peninsula on the western coast of Republic of Korea 4 years after the Hebei Spirit oil spill, we analyzed carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios of macrobenthic consumers and their potential food sources in two heavily oil-impacted and one non-impacted sites. The results show no significant differences in isotopic ratios of feeding groups and their potential food sources between the polluted and reference sites, suggesting similar trophic structures given similar resource use by consumers. Similar isotopic niches and substantial overlap areas of feeding groups between the affected and reference sites suggest that the oil-impacted sites have re-achieved the trophic functions of the natural ecosystem. This study provides valuable information on the ecological processes of trophic recovery in coastal ecosystems impacted by oil spills."	NonUS	Ecology
"As a non-invasive monitoring method camera traps are noted as being an effective, accurate and rapid means of compiling species richness estimates of medium to large terrestrial mammals. However, crucial elements of camera trap survey design are rarely empirically addressed, which has raised the need for both a standardised and optimised camera trapping protocol. Our study confirms that an appropriate camera placement buffer and targeting areas of animal activity, contributes to more complete species richness estimates as well as significantly reducing the rate of false trigger events. However, attaining the required survey effort in terms of camera days was the most important factor in providing accurate species richness estimates. Our results suggest that reliable estimates of species richness can be achieved in open scrubland when cameras are spaced 1 x 1 km apart and left in the targeted area until a survey effort of a 1000 camera days is realised."	NonUS	Ecology
"Niche theory is a foundational ecological concept that explains the distribution of species in natural environments. Identifying the dimensions of any organism's niche is challenging because numerous environmental factors can affect organism viability. We used serial invasion experiments to introduce Ruegeria pomeroyi DSS-3, a heterotrophic marine bacterium, into a coastal phytoplankton bloom on 14 dates. RNA-sequencing analysis of R. pomeroyi was conducted after 90 min to assess its niche dimensions in this dynamic ecosystem. We identified similar to 100 external conditions eliciting transcriptional responses, which included substrates, nutrients, metals and biotic interactions such as antagonism, resistance and cofactor synthesis. The peak bloom was characterized by favourable states for most of the substrate dimensions, but low inferred growth rates of R. pomeroyi at this stage indicated that its niche was narrowed by factors other than substrate availability, most probably negative biotic interactions with the bloom dinoflagellate. Our findings indicate chemical and biological features of the ocean environment that can constrain where heterotrophic bacteria survive."	USA	Ecology
"In the eastern US, research is needed on the establishment and evaluation of conservation measures for forest-dwelling bats, in general, and for the newly listed Myotis septentrionalis (Northern Long-Eared Bat), in particular. Our objectives were to evaluate the overall use of 3 artificial roosting structures-rocket box, nursery box, and artificial bark-by bats and to relate this use to local landscape characteristics in north-central West Virginia. We monitored 306 structures during summer 2016 and detected use (i.e., presence of guano, visual identification, capture of bats) at 132 (43%) roosts, of which 55 (42%) were confirmed, through capture or visual identification, to contain Northern Long-eared Bats. Nursery boxes were used more than expected based on availability (60%), but rocket boxes accounted for 40 (73%) of the roosts confirmed to be occupied by Northern Long-eared Bats, with 70% being used by maternity colonies of this species. We utilized binomial generalized linear models and an information theoretic approach to examine use of artificial roosts by maternity colonies of Northern Long-eared Bats. Our best-supported model differentiating structures occupied by maternity colonies from those that housed individual bats showed relationships to elevation, slope, area solar radiation, and distance to streams and large (>200 ha) forests. Our study provides initial guidance for land and wildlife managers on implementing an effective conservation and management technique for bats within this region."	USA	Conservation
"Consistent individual differences in behavior, commonly termed animal personality, are a widespread phenomenon across taxa that have important consequences for fitness, natural selection, and trophic interactions. Animal personality research may prove useful in several conservation contexts, but which contexts remains to be determined. We conducted a structured literature review of 654 studies identified by combining search terms for animal personality and various conservation subfields. We scored the relevance of personality and conservation issues for each study to identify which studies meaningfully integrated the 2 fields as opposed to surface-level connections or vague allusions. We found a taxonomic bias toward mammals (29% of all studies). Very few amphibian or reptile studies applied personality research to conservation issues (6% each). Climate change (21%), invasive species (15%), and captive breeding and reintroduction (13%) were the most abundant conservation subfields that occurred in our search, though a substantial proportion of these papers weakly integrated conservation and animal personality (climate change 54%, invasive species 51%, captive breeding and reintroduction 40%). Based on our results, we recommend that researchers strive for consistent and broadly applicable terminology when describing consistent behavioral differences to minimize confusion and improve the searchability of research. We identify several gaps in the literature that appear to be promising and fruitful avenues for future research, such as disease transmission as a function of sociability or exploration as a driver of space use in protected areas. Practitioners can begin informing future conservation efforts with knowledge gained from animal personality research."	NonUS	Conservation
"Recovery of noble metals using marine bacteria is becoming an attractive research area because the marine microbes can better adapt to unfavorable environment than terrestrial microorganisms. In this study, we first reported that a marine Bacillus sp. GP was capable of producing Pd and Au NPs in the presence of sodium lactate. Ultraviolet visible spectrometer (UV-vis), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction patterns (XRD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) analyses were employed to explain the process and mechanism of Pd(II)/Au(III) reduction through GP. Additionally, we also found that bio-Pd/Au NPs could be used as catalysts in chemical reduction of 4-nitrophenol (4 -NP). Moreover, the catalytic activity of bio-Pd NPs could be enhanced by Fe3O4, Al2O3 and SiO2, which is beneficial for practical application. The k(1) (k(2)) values of Fe3O4, Al2O3 and SiO2 supplemental systems were approximately 1.28-1.69 (1.15-1.69), 1.42-1.75 (1.53-1.91) and 1.07-1.73 (1.14-1.49) fold, respectively, compared to that of control systems."	NonUS	Technology
"The potential impact of exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on the health and survival of cetaceans continues to be an issue for conservation and management, yet few quantitative approaches for estimating population level effects have been developed. An individual based model (IBM) for assessing effects on both calf survival and immunity was developed and tested. Three case study species (bottlenose dolphin, humpback whale and killer whale) in four populations were taken as examples and the impact of varying levels of PCB uptake on achievable population growth was assessed. The unique aspect of the model is its ability to evaluate likely effects of immunosuppression in addition to calf survival, enabling consequences of PCB exposure on immune function on all age-classes to be explored. By incorporating quantitative tissue concentration-response functions from laboratory animal model species into an IBM framework, population trajectories were generated. Model outputs included estimated concentrations of PCBs in the blubber of females by age, which were then compared to published empirical data. Achievable population growth rates were more affected by the inclusion of effects of PCBs on immunity than on calf survival, but the magnitude depended on the virulence of any subsequent encounter with a pathogen and the proportion of the population exposed. Since the starting population parameters were from historic studies, which may already be impacted by PCBs, the results should be interpreted on, a relative rather than an absolute basis. The framework will assist in providing quantitative risk assessments for populations of concern. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Conservation
"The southeastern United States contains the largest area on Earth devoted to intensive pine growth and represents an area experiencing rapid forest conversion for residential development. This region also harbors the highest lungless salamander diversity in the world. Studies repeatedly demonstrate that this taxon responds negatively to forest conversion. In this study, we evaluated terrestrial salamander abundance in four forest types commonly found on the southern Cumberland Plateau, USA: unmanaged, residential, burned, and harvested. Our results indicate that terrestrial salamanders occur in low surface abundance in this landscape but are found at their highest abundance in residential forest patches. Although we are unable to assess if these areas have always harbored higher abundances of terrestrial salamanders, these residential forest fragments have high conservation value to retain terrestrial salamanders in a heavily managed landscape."	USA	Conservation
"In their native range, Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) have strong interactions with a multitude of species due to the annual pulse of marine-derived nutrients that they deliver to streams and forests when they spawn and die. Over the past few decades, Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) has established non-native populations throughout the Patagonia region of southern South America. Here, we provide the first assessment of the pathways through which salmon-derived nutrients enter stream and forest food webs in Patagonia by surveying multiple streams in southern Chile to identify invertebrate and vertebrate consumers of salmon carcasses and summarizing all documented trophic interactions of Chinook salmon in Patagonia. Blowflies (Calliphoridae) were the dominant colonizer of carcasses in the riparian zone, and midge flies (Chironomidae) were the most common invertebrate on submerged carcasses. Camera trap monitoring in the riparian zone revealed consumption of carcasses or carcass-associated invertebrates by the insectivorous passerine bird chucao (Scelorchilis rubecula), small rodents (black rat Rattus rattus, house mouse Mus musculus, and/or colilargo Oligoryzomys longicaudatus), the South American fox culpeo (Lycalopex culpaeus), and the invasive American mink (Neovison vison). A mink was filmed transferring a carcass from stream to streambank, indicating that vertebrate scavenging likely increases the degree to which marine-derived nutrients enter terrestrial food webs. The native taxa that consume salmon are closely related to species that benefit from salmon consumption in North America, suggesting that the pathways of salmon nutrient incorporation in North American food webs have functionally re-emerged in South America. Similarly, non-native trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss and Salmo trutta) and mink consume salmon in Patagonia, and their eco-evolutionary history of coexistence with salmon could mean that they are preadapted for salmon consumption and could thus be key beneficiaries of this invasion. Expanded monitoring of the abundance and impacts of salmon will be vital for understanding how these novel inputs of marine-derived nutrients alter Patagonian food webs."	NonUS	Ecology
"During an oceanographic campaign in the western Pacific Ocean from 12 August to 3 October 2014, the concentrations of five non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHCs) were measured in marine atmosphere and seawater. The average mixing ratios of ethane, ethylene, propane, propylene, and isoprene were 1.109 +/- 0.359, 0.658 +/- 0.137, 0.711 +/- 0.377. 0.429 +/- 0.139, and 0.255 +/- 0201 ppbv, respectively. In general, atmospheric concentrations of ethane and propane showed significant decrease from the inshore area to the open ocean, while ethylene and propylene exhibited decreasing trends from low latitudes to high latitudes. The results suggested that atmospheric ethane and propane with long lifetimes were more likely influenced by the air mass transported from continent, while ethylene, propylene and isoprene with short lifetimes were mainly derived from the surface seawater. The average concentrations of ethane, ethylene, propane, propylene, and isoprene in the surface seawater were 6.6 +/- 5.8, 51.9 +/- 23.5, 15.4 +/- 4.3, 17.2 +/- 3.8, and 23.5 +/- 8.6 pmol L-1, respectively. A significant positive correlation was observed between ethane and propane (R-2 = 0.45, n = 39, p < 0.001), implying that their production and removal pathways in the surface seawater were similar. High concentrations of isoprene were observed in the waters with high Chl-a values, suggesting that the biological process was a controlling factor. The estimated sea-to-air fluxes of ethane, propane, ethylene, propylene, and isoprene were in the range of 0.1-24.9, 42-235, 1.0-43.8, 1.5-90.2, and 2.1-149 nmol m(-2)d(-1), respectively. This study is of great importance to the contribution to the atmospheric NMHCs from the western Pacific Ocean and provides data supporting for global NMHCs emission estimates. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Feeding strategies in sea turtles are among the most important aspects of their life history, influencing demographic parameters such as growth, age-at-maturity, and reproductive migrations. However, studying sea turtle diet is often challenging and knowledge about foraging ecology is lacking for most populations worldwide. We studied green turtles (Chelonia mydas) at two disparate sites in Peru: La Aguada (similar to 14 degrees S), an area with upwelling conditions, and Virrila Estuary (similar to 5 degrees S) with year-round warm conditions. We conducted (1) in-water capture to assess population size structure and (2) esophageal lavages to recover diet components from turtles at both sites. Diet composition and feeding strategy were evaluated using several analytical approaches, and environmental influence on diet was assessed in relation to the Peruvian Oscillation Index. Our results indicate substantially different life stages and diets at the two study sites. Green turtles at La Aguada were mostly juveniles consuming animal matter, whereas turtles at Virrila Estuary were mainly sub-adults with a diet dominated by vegetal matter. Our results suggest a life-history-based habitat use model for green turtles in the southeastern Pacific Ocean. We propose that juvenile green turtles initially recruit to more southern neritic habitats of Peru, feed on high-caloric animal matter, then as individuals grow, they transition northwards to feed on lower-caloric, but abundant, vegetal matter. Our data provide a framework for ontogenic-based developmental migrations by green turtles in this portion of the southeastern Pacific Ocean, helping policymakers on the need to implement management strategies."	NonUS	Ecology
"High global and domestic demand for parrots (Psittaciformes) as pets, and consequent removal from the wild for the illicit trade have significantly contributed to their severe decline worldwide. While the trade is vast, not every parrot species is at equal risk of being traded, and there is controversy concerning the role of demand and the opportunity-based factors driving the illicit wildlife trade. The criminological model CRAAVED was used to analyze the factors associated with traded parrots in Indonesia, the country shown to have the highest priority for parrot conservation. We quantified the relative importance of CRAAVED components that drive trade risk by using advanced multivariate, phylogenetically controlled models. Three factors were significantly predictive of trade variation, whether the species was disposable (i.e. most legally exported species), enjoyable (i.e. most attractive), and accessible by people, suggesting that demand- and opportunity-based factors together can partially explain the illegal parrot trade in Indonesia. Our analysis has important implications for parrot conservation and the broader illegal pet trade, and is of considerable value for developing strategies at national and international levels for helping to control wildlife trade."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"In order to advance both the mapping and theorizing of transnational law, this article considers a range of tactics used by small-scale fisheries (SSFs) in Europe and North America to improve market access, political influence, and legal recognition. Transnational law enables the framing of initiatives not only as implementation practices that occur as a result of international law, but also as transnational regulation in support of SSFs. The article uses the case study of SSFs to draw attention to the rise of 'transnational localism'. This is defined as the reinforcement of local-specific approaches (reflecting local ecologies, values, and socio-economic specificities) within a transnational structure that provides support and recognition. It offers an alternative to the view that globalization necessitates global, uniform regulatory solutions. Transnational localism challenges the fascination with large certification schemes such as that administered by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) in fisheries governance. It implies a need to reconcile transnational challenges with heterogeneous values and community approaches. To capture the simultaneous demand for the local and transnational within transnational law, this article proposes treating the described empowerment tactics within the scope of transnational standards. This requires a rethinking of standards away from fixed technical rules that are uniformly applicable across the globe."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Tick-borne protozoans of the genus Hepatozoon are obligate hemoparasites that can infect domestic and wild terrestrial vertebrates. Main hepatozoonosis affects canids and involves mainly Hepatozoon cants and Hepatozoon americanum. However, molecular studies revealed the capacity of H. cants to infect a wide range of wild mammals. In July 2018, we conducted an epidemiological survey for tick-borne pathogens in wild hosts, assaying Hepatozoon sp. occurrence in 34 bats captured in different habitats within a conservation unit in the state of Espirito Santo, southeastern Brazil. Blood and spleen tissue DNA samples were submitted to PCR amplifications of Babesia/Theileria and Hepatozoon 18S rRNA gene and 21% (7/34) were positive for Hepatozoon sp. Phylogenetic inferences grouped the obtained sequences from Seba's short-tailed bat (Carollia perspicillata) with the H. canis cluster, and from the great fruit-eating bat (Artibeus lituratus) with rodent-associated Hepatozoon cluster. Further studies are needed to characterize the epidemiological role of Seba's short-tailed bat and the great fruit-eating bat in the wild transmission cycle of these hemoparasites in Brazil."	NonUS	Genetics
"Exiting the EU allows the UK to unilaterally change the frameworks that govern its environment and natural resources. This opportunity is timely given the urgent need to address the biodiversity and climate emergencies, and deliver the necessary policy changes to meet associated international agreements. The UK's divergence from EU environmental policy has already begun. The new Agriculture Act uses the concept of public money for public goods (PMPG) to seemingly revolutionise direct agricultural subsidies, replacing the much-maligned funding mechanisms under the Common Agricultural Policy and making the provision of their replacement dependent upon actions delivering societal gain. However, the potential benefits of transposing this concept to marine fisheries and aquaculture are yet to be recognised despite similar criticisms of funding mechanisms under the Common Fisheries Policy. This paper therefore considers the key distinctions between our use of marine and terrestrial environments and how PMPG could be applied to fisheries and aquaculture. The findings suggest that some forms of aquaculture are well-placed to benefit from a 'marinising' of the PMPG concept. Currently, capture fisheries, because they do not have ownership over marine space and interact with the marine environment in an extractive manner, have a greater challenge to adapt their business models to receive public money under this framework."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Monitoring and surveillance of wildlife populations, including demographics and health, is often challenging, particularly in resource-constrained and remote settings. However, in areas characterized by subsistence oriented societies, the users of renewable resources hold a vast and holistic ecological knowledge about the natural environment. This knowledge can be instrumental for understanding and early detection of changes in wildlife populations. Using qualitative research methods and participatory epidemiology techniques we documented the local knowledge from resource users of the community of Iqaluktutiaq (Nunavut, Canada) to assess the health and population status and trends for muskoxen and caribou in the area. Semi-structured individual interviews, followed by group interviews, were implemented with 38 participants, and research findings were summarized and then verified with 31 interviewees. Local knowledge identified major declines in the number of muskoxen and caribou in the study area that were corroborated by subsequent aerial population estimates for both species. Observations made by participants allowed inference of possible mechanisms for the recent population declines, including poor recruitment, poor body condition, and increased morbidity and mortality (including endemic and emerging diseases). Engaging resource users in the process of knowledge generation was useful to identify further research priorities and fostered trust among parties that facilitated the subsequent collaborative development of management plans for these species. We use our experience to illustrate that local knowledge contributes to a holistic understanding of wildlife health and can serve as an early warning system to detect changes in wildlife populations. These participatory approaches are portable to other species and settings and can enhance conservation and co-management efforts for wildlife species worldwide."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Pinna nobilis populations, constituting the largest bivalve mollusk endemic to the Mediterranean, is characterized as critically endangered, threatened by extinction. Among the various factors proposed as etiological agents are the Haplosporidium pinnae and Mycobacterium sp. parasites. Nevertheless, devastation of the fan mussel populations is still far from clear. The current work is undertaken under a broader study aiming to evaluate the health status of Pinna nobilis population in Aegean Sea, after the mass mortalities that occurred in 2019. A significant objective was also (a) the investigation of the etiological agents of small-scale winter mortalities in the remaining populations after the devastating results of Haplosporidium pinnae and Mycobacterium sp. infections, as well as (b) the examination of the susceptibility of the identified bacterial strains in antibiotics for future laboratory experiments. Microbiological assays were used in order to detect the presence of potential bacterial pathogens in moribund animals in combination with molecular tools for their identification. Our results provide evidence that Vibrio bacterial species are directly implicated in the winter mortalities, particularly in cases where the haplosporidian parasite was absent. Additionally, this is the first report of Vibrio mediterranei and V. splendidus hosted by any bivalve on the Greek coastline."	NonUS	Ecology
"Dissolved exometabolites mediate algal interactions in aquatic ecosystems, but microalgal exometabolomes remain understudied. We conducted an untargeted metabolomic analysis of nonpolar exometabolites exuded from four phylogenetically and ecologically diverse eukaryotic microalgal strains grown in the laboratory, freshwater Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, brackish Desmodesmus sp., marine Phaeodactylum tricornutum, and marine Microchloropsis salina, to identify released metabolites based on relative enrichment in the exometabolomes compared to cell pellet metabolomes. Exudates from the different taxa were distinct, but we did not observe clear phylogenetic patterns. We used feature-based molecular networking to explore the identities of these metabolites, revealing several distinct di- and tripeptides secreted by each of the algae, lumichrome, a compound that is known to be involved in plant growth and bacterial quorum sensing, and novel prostaglandin-like compounds. We further investigated the impacts of exogenous additions of eight compounds selected based on exometabolome enrichment on algal growth. Of these compounds, five (lumichrome, 5'-S-methyl-5'-thioadenosine, 17-phenyl trinor prostaglandin A2, dodecanedioic acid, and aleuritic acid) impacted growth in at least one of the algal cultures. Two of these compounds (dodecanedioic acid and aleuritic acid) produced contrasting results, increasing growth in some algae and decreasing growth in others. Together, our results reveal new groups of microalgal exometabolites, some of which could alter algal growth when provided exogenously, suggesting potential roles in allelopathy and algal interactions. IMPORTANCE Microalgae are responsible for nearly half of primary production on earth and play an important role in global biogeochemical cycling as well as in a range of industrial applications. Algal exometabolites are important mediators of algal-algal and algal-bacterial interactions that ultimately affect algal growth and physiology. In this study, we characterize exometabolomes across marine and freshwater algae to gain insights into the diverse metabolites they release into their environments (exudates). We observe that while phylogeny can play a role in exometabolome content, environmental conditions or habitat origin (freshwater versus marine) are also important. We also find that several of these compounds can influence algal growth (as measured by chlorophyll production) when provided exogenously, highlighting the importance of characterization of these novel compounds and their role in microalgal ecophysiology."	USA	Ecology
"Although catch-and-release fishing tournaments undoubtedly reduce mortality of target species, postrelease mortality and fish stockpiling at release sites remain common concerns related to these tournaments. The impacts of live-release tournaments on freshwater species have been widely studied. However, research on estuarine sport fishes is lacking even though catch-and-release tournaments targeting these species are prevalent and popular recreational fisheries exist. Therefore, we estimated the post-weigh-in mortality and dispersal of Red Drum Sciaenops ocellatus and Spotted Seatrout Cynoscion nebulosus released from the 2016-2018 Alabama Deep Sea Fishing Rodeo live-weigh-in categories using acoustic telemetry. To concurrently estimate overall post-weigh-in mortality and dispersal, we used a Bayesian multistate model. Overall Red Drum post-weigh-in mortality (median = 6.12%; posterior credible interval [CrI] = 5.67-9.24%) was lower than overall Spotted Seatrout mortality (median = 30.63%; CrI = 26.74-40.00%). These estimates were within reported catch-and-release mortality ranges; however, they were higher than recent estimates for Spotted Seatrout. Within 1 week postrelease, Spotted Seatrout dispersal estimates (median = 87.03%; CrI = 72.96-95.72%) were higher than Red Drum (median = 55.62%; CrI = 42.75-68.10%) or Micropterus spp. in coastal and inland ecosystems. Long-term stockpiling at the release site was also not present; at the end of our 8-week observation period, median dispersal estimates were 94.41% (CrI = 87.15-98.19%) and 98.54% (CrI = 93.68-99.82%) for Red Drum and Spotted Seatrout, respectively. Red Drum fisheries may benefit most from live-release tournaments given that maximum mortality was <10%, but Spotted Seatrout fisheries may also benefit, especially if considerations are made to further reduce tournament mortality. Although we do not know the ratio of tournament mortality to recreational harvest for these species, live-release tournaments may be able to relieve some harvest pressure on heavily exploited inshore marine fisheries and research validating their usefulness should continue."	USA	Fisheries
"The behavior of organisms at local scales can have dramatic effects on the distribution of habitat and ecosystem processes at large spatial scales. Grazing halos-barren areas of sand surrounding coral reefs-are readily visible in remotely sensed imagery, and are formed by herbivores preferentially grazing close to the safety of the reef. Grazing halo size can vary by more than an order of magnitude, yet we lack an understanding of what underlies this variation. Changes in grazing intensity and the distance herbivores travel may be influenced by predation risk, resource availability, and structural attributes of the reef. Here, we tested how predator density, herbivore density, and patch reef area are correlated with halo size and grazing patterns by linking satellite imagery with mensurative experiments on patch reefs in the Caribbean. Chronic predation risk suppressed the overall foraging intensity of herbivorous fishes; a doubling in predator density led to a 29% decrease in grazing. Variation in herbivore density, which was tightly correlated with patch reef area, was linked to the distance herbivores foraged from the reef. Furthermore, herbivore density and/or reef area was the best predictor of halo width at field sites, and reef area explained a significant proportion of the variation in halo size across the landscape. Our results contribute to a growing body of research suggesting that halos may function as footprints of ecological processes, such as herbivory, that can be quantified using remote sensing, and offer a potential avenue to improve monitoring of coral reef management."	USA	Ecology
"Climate change has profound ecological effects, yet our understanding of how trophic interactions among species are affected by climate change is still patchy. The sympatric Atlantic haddock and cod are co-occurring across the North Atlantic. They compete for food at younger stages and thereafter the former is preyed by the latter. Climate change might affect the interaction and coexistence of these two species. Particularly, the increase in sea temperature (ST) has been shown to affect distribution, population growth and trophic interactions in marine systems. We used 33-year long time series of haddock and cod abundances estimates from two data sources (acoustic and trawl survey) to analyse the dynamic effect of climate on the coexistence of these two sympatric species in the Arcto-Boreal Barents Sea. Using a Bayesian state-space threshold model, we demonstrated that long-term climate variation, as expressed by changes of ST, affected species demography through different influences on density-independent processes. The interaction between cod and haddock has shifted in the last two decades due to an increase in ST, altering the equilibrium abundances and the dynamics of the system. During warm years (ST over ca. 4 degrees C), the increase in the cod abundance negatively affected haddock abundance while it did not during cold years. This change in interactions therefore changed the equilibrium population size with a higher population size during warm years. Our analyses show that long-term climate change in the Arcto-Boreal system can generate differences in the equilibrium conditions of species assemblages."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"As over half of the world's tropical forests are reforested or afforested, understanding the resilience of carbon (C) pool in these forests is critical for global C balance. While most previous studies on the reforested lands have focused on C stock recovery, soil C turnover has largely been overlooked. We evaluated soil C turnover rate by calculating the isotopic enrichment factors of alpha (defined as the slope of the regression between the delta C-13 difference and /n-transferred C concentrations in mineral soil samples relative to the surface litter) and ji (defined as the slope of the regression between delta C-13 and log-transferred C concentrations) along 0-30 cm soil profiles in a 400-year-old monsoon evergreen broad-leaved forest (MEBF), a 51-year-old mixed-native plantation (NP1), a 31-year-old mixed-native plantation (NP2), a 31-year-old Acacia mangium plantation (AP), a 31-year-old mixedconifer plantation (CP), and a 31-year-old secondary forest with natural restoration (SF). Results showed that soil C stocks did not differ among the six forests. The estimated a values ranged from 1.0023 to 1.0086 and increased in the order of MEBF = NP1 < NP2 = AP = CP < SF. The estimated ji values ranged from -19.70 to -5.22 but showed an opposite trend to a values. Additionally, changes of the a and ji values among these forests were mainly regulated by soil water content and bulk density. Our findings demonstrate that forest restoration could enhance soil C stock equivalent to the undisturbed old-growth forests within a few decades, but the rate of soil C turnover in these restored forests were still higher."	NonUS	Ecology
"Conflicts arising from the consumption of anthropogenic foods by wildlife are increasing worldwide. Conventional tools for evaluating the spatial distribution pattern of large terrestrial mammals that consume anthropogenic foods have various limitations, despite their importance in management to mitigate conflicts. In this study, we examined the spatial distribution pattern of crop-foraging sika deer by performing nitrogen stable isotope analyses of bone collagen. We evaluated whether crop-foraging deer lived closer to agricultural crop fields during the winter and spring, when crop production decreases. We found that female deer in proximity to agricultural crop fields during the winter and spring were more likely to be crop-foraging individuals. Furthermore, the likelihood of crop consumption by females decreased by half as the distance to agricultural crop fields increased to 5-10 km. We did not detect a significant trend in the spatial distribution of crop-foraging male deer. The findings of spatial distribution patterns of crop-foraging female deer will be useful for the establishment of management areas, such as zonation, for efficient removal of them."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The floating goby Gymnogobius petschiliensis Rendahl is an amphidromous fish, which migrates upstream from the sea in the juvenile period and then inhabits not only freshwater areas but also brackish water. Most of the species that have such migratory polymorphism switch their osmoregulatory mechanism in synchrony with the timing of migration, but in G. petschiliensis it is known that even individuals living in freshwater areas behaviourally prefer brackish water to freshwater conditions in a laboratory. To clarify whether this species lives in freshwater areas with high osmoregulatory cost, the relationship between physiological cost and salinity was investigated using adult fish of the species captured in a freshwater area. Adults were kept individually in 13 L tanks with various salinity levels under fasted conditions. Their loss of body weight in freshwater conditions was more rapid than in 2/3 seawater, whereas the frequencies of horizontal and vertical movement in 13 L tanks did not differ significantly between freshwater and 2/3 seawater conditions. This suggests that the weight loss reflects not behavioural performance but physiological cost. In addition, no adults died even when transferred from freshwater to seawater conditions, indicating that they have high tolerance to salinity change in estuarine areas even after migrating to freshwater areas. These results support the hypothesis that G. petschiliensis migrates to freshwater areas while maintaining high hypo-osmoregulatory ability and paying a high physiological cost. Because G. petschiliensis phylogenetically originates from the coastal species, this example of migration without completely switching the osmoregulatory mechanism may help us to understand the diverse processes of up-stream migration in marine fish."	NonUS	Ecology
"In this study we analyzed data on fishing landings of Genidens barbus in the state of SAo Paulo, Brazil, from 2000 to 2014. An estimation of the total production was obtained through the analysis of 781,856 landings, among which 87% were categorized as artisanal and 13% as industrial. The abundance index showed some stability in the period. However, due to the high number of production units, the fishing effort need to be maintained, given that there is a risk that increased production might affect the abundance of G. barbus. Thus, as alternatives to maintaining marine catfish exploitation in southeastern Brazil under control, the following management actions can be suggested: i) prohibition of fishing activity by the industrial sector; ii) strengthening of inspection of the fleet that is not allowed to participate in the marine catfish fisheries, with emphasis on purse seiners; and iii) maintenance of a closed season for G. barbus, performing an adaptive management of fishing prohibition according to the reproductive biology of the species and with the support of artisanal fishers. These measures have the aim of promoting sustainable exploitation of G. barbus, especially through small-scale fisheries in southeastern Brazil."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Science helps us identify problems, understand their extent, and begin to find solutions; it helps us understand future directions for our society. Scientists bear witness to scenes of change and discovery that most people will never experience. Yet the vividness of these experiences is often left out when scientists talk and write about their work. A growing community of practice is showing that scientists can share their message in an engaging way using a strategy that most are already familiar with: storytelling. Here we draw on our experiences leading scientist communication training and hosting science storytelling events at the International Marine Conservation Congress to share basic techniques, tips, and resources for incorporating storytelling into any scientist's communication toolbox."	USA	Technology
"Despite frequent calls for Integrated Management (IM) of coastal and marine activities, there is no consensus on the 'recipe' for successful adoption and implementation, and there has been insufficient evaluation of successes and failures of IM to date. The primary rationale for IM is to overcome four major deficiencies of sector-based management: a) management of diverse activities by different agencies using different approaches, b) management generally focused on a subset of primarily ecological objectives that do not properly articulate or evaluate social, cultural, economic and institutional objectives, c) no mechanisms to evaluate or advise on tradeoffs among objectives of activities in relation to objectives and d) no mechanisms to evaluate the cumulative effects of all managed activities. To help overcome this gap in knowledge, here we draw on our collective experiences working in Australia and Canada to develop and articulate a framework to help guide the practical implementation and evaluation of IM, which we define as: 'An approach that links (integrates) planning, decision-making and management arrangements across sectors in a unified framework, to enable a more comprehensive view of sustainability and the consideration of cumulative effects and trade-offs.' We argue that IM will be most easily and effectively achieved by linking and modifying existing sector-based plans in an overarching IM initiative that has nine key features: 1) Recognition of need for IM, 2) A shared vision by stakeholders and decision-makers for IM, 3) Appropriate legal and institutional frameworks for coordinated decision-making, 4) Sufficient and effective processes for stakeholder engagement and participation, 5) A common and comprehensive set of operational objectives, 6) Explicit consideration of trade-offs and cumulative impacts, 7) Flexibility to adapt to changing conditions, 8) Processes for ongoing review and refinement, and 9) Effective resourcing, capacity, leadership and tools. Drawing on these features we then articulate a process for the implementation and evaluation of IM that recognises five phases: i) Preconditions and drivers of change, ii) Intentional design and institutional rearrangement, iii) Enablers and disablers iv) An implemented IM process, and v) Review of IM performance and modification. Combination of the nine features of IM with the five phases in IM development provides a framework for implementation and a lens for evaluation of IM processes. We suggest that this framework provides a guide to the appropriate design of practical IM, which will assist in overcoming the current management deficiencies and improve the sustainability of marine resources in the face of change."	NonUS	Conservation
"The expanding population of wild pig (Sus scrofa) and the associated economic loss has been a challenge for the government and conservation biologists, for over a decade globally. Unlike the majority of other wildlife, rising anthropogenic pressure offered wild pigs a suitable environment to expand their population. Accordingly, the circumstances for social conflict also increased at human-wildlife interface areas. Understanding the regional ecological landscape factors driving the human-wild pig conflict (HWPC) is vital for developing efficient strategies for HWPC management. We analyzed the important spatial and ecological factors determining HWPC across the Eastern and Western Ghats region of Tamil Nadu, India through semi-structured interviews of local communities. Fifty seven percent (n = 825) of the villagers surveyed (n = 1460) reported frequent wild pig conflict, principally in the form of crop damage (n = 819), especially in areas adjoining the forest boundary. Our study indicated that the probability of HWPC was positively correlated to the diversity of major and minor crops grown, percent crop cover and distance to the nearest water body, and negatively correlated to the degree of slope of the landscape and average annual rainfall. We identified 6729 km 2 of the total sampled area (22,525 km(2)) of high HWPC. Our HWPC hotspot map provides a concise view of the conflict pattern across the larger landscapes that can help the authorities prioritize areas and concentrate the conflict mitigation measures towards areas that require immediate attention."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Over the last 5 decades, natural populations of pink (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha) and chum (O. keta) salmon were the most abundant salmon species returning to Washington, USA. Pink salmon predominantly returned in odd years, and chum salmon stocks that interacted with pink salmon exhibited strong even- and odd-year variations in abundance, size, age-at-maturity, and productivity (recruits-per-spawner). We investigated the effects of competition between pink and chum salmon originating from Washington during different life-history phases. Overall, chum salmon returns were 34% lower in pink salmon (odd) years compared to non-pink salmon (even) years. Chum salmon productivity tended to be below average for odd broods, especially along the Washington coast where there are no pink salmon populations, suggesting that competition during overlapping marine periods established their distinct even- and odd-year patterns. We evaluated long-term trends in chum (and pink) salmon productivity using correlation and time series analysis and examined the influence of ocean indicators on those trends. In general, chum salmon productivity increased between brood years 1968 and 1989 and was positively related to summertime Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO), but declined between brood years 1990 and 2012 and was negatively related to the PDO. Pink salmon productivity had no directional trend, but exhibited declines over the last decade and was negatively related to the PDO over the entire time series. Chum salmon productivity was also negatively related to pink salmon abundance, supporting the conclusion that ocean conditions and competition accounted for brood-year differences in chum salmon age-at-maturity and lower returns in odd versus even years."	USA	Fisheries
"Telomeres, repeating TTAGGG sequences at the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes, increase genomic stability. Telomere shortening occurs not only during DNA replication associated with cell division but also under oxidative stress, where reactive oxygen species damage DNA. Therefore, changes in telomere length can be used to evaluate chronic cost or stress responses incurred by individuals. The phylogenetically unique Chondrichthyes are among the least-studied groups of marine vertebrates. Telomere data are limited and have only been reported in a few Chondrichthyes species. In this study, we measured telomere length and quantified oxidative stress and antioxidant power in 17 Chondrichthyes species whose telomere length has not been measured before. The presence of telomere sequences > 30 bp and lower values of oxidative stress were confirmed in most species. Average telomere length was not correlated with oxidative stress and antioxidant power in 15 species for which both measurements were available. It would be desirable in the future to elucidate the nature of telomeres in Chondrichthyes, and their direct relationship with reactive oxygen species."	NonUS	Genetics
"Aim Although at least five Tylototriton species were recorded in Thailand, only Tylototriton verrucosus is registered as a protected species under the Wildlife Preservation and Protection Act in Thailand. Populations of T. uyenoi are now severely declining, caused by anthropogenic activities. As intense human pressure is having profound effects on the diminishment in T. uyenoi populations, a conservation plan is needed. Information such as the abundance and distribution of a species is necessary. Yet, current established survey methods are either time-consuming or labour-intensive. Here, eDNA-based detection was developed for tracking the presence of the T. uyenoi. Location Thailand. Methods We target the surveillance of T. uyenoi using eDNA. Primers and a probe specific to T. uyenoi were designed and tested for their specificity and sensitivity. Water samples were collected once a month from August to January at three sites in Doi Suthep and at three extra sites within the range of the species. Three hundred ml samples of water were collected and filtered. Environmental DNA was extracted and then subjected to qPCR assay in an attempt to detect T. uyenoi. Results The qPCR assay was found to be species-specific to T. uyenoi. Both PCR and qPCR did not result in any positive detection of three congeners or other non-target species. The LOD and the LOQ of the assay were determined by an analysis of the standard curve, and it was found that the LOD and the LOQ were 7.99 and 9.0 copies per reaction, respectively. Environmental DNA was detected in water samples from all sites where T. uyenoi has been known to occur, but detection varied among sites and sampling times. In addition, low amounts of eDNA were detected in three sites with unknown occupancy of newts, but within the species' range. Conclusions Our findings suggest that eDNA survey is a powerful tool for tracking T. uyenoi throughout the year regardless of the sampling site conditions. Similar to other amphibians, T. uyenoi is severely declining due to anthropogenic factors. In order to have an effective conservation plan, knowledge of a species' distribution is needed. To our knowledge, this was the first study that used eDNA to track the crocodile newt in Thailand."	NonUS	Conservation
"Members of the public play a primary role in successful implementation of wildlife management plans, making communication between scientists and the public a vital component of wildlife management. Although there is substantial public interest in the health of ungulate populations, stakeholder perspectives can vary widely, rendering a single approach to communication ineffective. To improve science communication, we characterized perspectives regarding issues negatively affecting mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in Wyoming, USA. We used Q methodology, a mixed quantitative-qualitative approach where participants ranked a series of statements followed by semi-structured interviews, to identify shared perspectives. We interviewed individuals (n = 37) representing prominent stakeholder groups (e.g., ranchers, hunters, conservation non-profits) in Wyoming. We identified 3 perspectives (52% of variance explained) that captured shared views regarding what factors are negatively affecting mule deer: bottom-up (n = 17 participants; 26% variance), human contributions (n = 9; 14% variance), and top-down (n = 8; 12% variance) perspectives. Most participants shared the idea that mule deer are being negatively affected, but participants diverged in views as to the primary issues. Perspectives ranged from being focused on bottom-up factors (e.g., habitat fragmentation, condition of winter ranges) to top-down factors (e.g., predation, disease) to factors focused on human contributions (e.g., human activity, public and political interests). Based on how participants diverged in perspectives and their interest in mule deer management, we discuss opportunities for scientists to improve communication by incorporating ecological complexity and nuance, moving towards a 2-way dialogue of communication, and sharing their own first-hand experiences in future communications with stakeholders. (c) 2021 The Authors. The Journal of Wildlife Management published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Wildlife Society."	USA	HumanWildlife
"We used morphological and genetic identification to document metazoan parasites of cetaceans and pinnipeds from 28 carcasses salvaged in California between 1974 and 2002, including whales, dolphins, porpoises, sea lions, and seals. Nematodes found included Anisakis simplex (s.l.), A. simplex (s.s.), Pseudoterranova decipiens (s.l.), Pseudoterranova sp., Contracaecum ogmorhini (s.l.), Contracaecum sp., Stenurus cf. minor, Pharurus cf. dalli, and Otostrongylus circumlitus. Cestodes found included Phyllobothrium delphini and Tetrabothrius sp. The acanthocephalan Bolbosoma capitatum, and the arthropod Halarachne miroungae, also were documented. Tetrabothrius sp. in the pygmy beaked whale (Mesoplodon peruvianus) and P. delphini in the Eastern North Pacific long-beaked common dolphin (Delphinus delphis bairdii) constitute two new host records."	USA	Genetics
"1. Camera traps (CTs) are a valuable tool in ecological research, amassing large quantities of information on the behaviour of diverse wildlife communities. CTs are predominantly used as passive data loggers to gather observational data for correlational analyses. Integrating CTs into experimental studies, however, can enable rigorous testing of key hypotheses in animal behaviour and conservation biology that are otherwise difficult or impossible to evaluate. 2. We developed the 'BoomBox', an open-source Arduino-compatible board that attaches to commercially available CTs to form an Automated Behavioural Response (ABR) system. The modular unit connects directly to the CT's passive infrared (PIR) motion sensor, playing audio files over external speakers when the sensor is triggered. This creates a remote playback system that captures animal responses to specific cues, combining the benefits of camera trapping (e.g. continuous monitoring in remote locations, lack of human observers, large data volume) with the power of experimental manipulations (e.g. controlled perturbations for strong mechanistic inference). 3. Our system builds on previous ABR designs to provide a cheap (similar to 100USD) and customizable field tool. We provide a practical guide detailing how to build and operate the BoomBox ABR system with suggestions for potential experimental designs that address a variety of questions in wildlife ecology. As proof-of-concept, we successfully field tested the BoomBox in two distinct field settings to study species interactions (predator-prey and predator-predator) and wildlife responses to conservation interventions. 4. This new tool allows researchers to conduct a unique suite of manipulative experiments on free-living species in complex environments, enhancing the ability to identify mechanistic drivers of species' behaviours and interactions in natural systems."	USA	Technology
"Protected areas in sub-Saharan Africa are fast becoming islands on which to conserve biodiversity as surrounding human populations grow exponentially, rangelands become urbanized, and natural habitats are fragmented. The Masai Mara National Reserve in the Mara-Serengeti ecosystem in Kenya is renowned for having one of the highest densities and diversities of large mammals in the world, but may be experiencing negative effects from anthropogenic disturbances (e.g., illegal livestock grazing) within Reserve boundaries. We monitored changes in the diversity and abundance of resident and migratory herbivores in response to temperature, rainfall, the size of the local pastoralist population, the burgeoning infrastructure for tourism, and the number of livestock grazing inside Reserve boundaries in the eastern portion of the Masai Mara over a 26 year period (1988-2013). Using hierarchical models fit in a Bayesian framework, we found that overall diversity and abundance of resident and migrant herbivores declined between 1988 and 2013 in the Talek region, which lies in the northeastern portion of the Reserve. The habitual grazing of livestock within the Reserve's boundaries, as well as both human population growth and the development of tourism infrastructure beside the Reserve, had strong negative correlations with herbivore diversity and with the size of resident and migrant herbivore populations in the Talek region. We also found that rainfall was negatively correlated with the numbers and diversity of resident herbivores, and that temperature was positively correlated with numbers of resident herbivores. We expect herbivore diversity and abundance to continue to decline if current trends in livestock grazing and tourism development continue in the eastern Masai Mara. (c) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)."	USA	Biodiversity
"The development of human activities on French Atlantic coastlines (La Rochelle) lead to chronic pollution of the environment by organic (pesticides, hydrocarbons, agrochemicals) and inorganic (heavy metals) contaminants. These past years, several regulations have been implemented to preserve coastal environments. The purpose of this study was to perform biomonitoring of bivalve species using an outdoor caging technique. The goal of our work was to assess the impact of harbour's trace elements on the state of health of the marine bivalve Mimachlamys varia. First, various molecular defence biomarkers were measured: SOD (oxidative stress), GST (detoxification process), MDA (lipid peroxidation), and Laccase (immune reaction). Thus, in April 2016, scallops were collected at three caging sites, which differ by their levels of pollution, after transplantation into port areas (fairing, rainwater) and a control site (marsh). Bivalve samples were taken at three sampling dates (D0, D07, D21). Biomarker assays were performed in the digestive glands due to their bioaccumulation properties. The second aim was to explore the impacts of inorganic pollutants placed in environmental harbour's sites. After 21 days, the biomarker response of transplanted bivalves revealed a SOD decrease, Laccase and GST stimulations, higher concentrations in Cu, Fe, As, Co, Mn, Zn, Sn and no significant variation of MDA concentration. Our ecological relevance of biomarker approaches opens interesting perspectives to identify M. varia such as a pertinent marine sentinel species. The several selected biomarkers determined could confirm their ability to appraise the water quality of hydro-systems located in French coastlines, such as port areas. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Given the difficulty of effective landscape-scale control of introduced predators, fenced areas that exclude them (i.e. 'mainland islands') can play an important role in conserving threatened mammal species in Australia. Despite this, the effort required to eradicate or remove introduced species from within fenced areas remains poorly quantified. This study was conducted at Mt Gibson Wildlife Sanctuary in semi-arid Western Australia, where a 43 km predator-exclusion fence surrounding 7832 ha was completed in June 2014. The subsequent effort expended in eradicating feral Cat (Felis catus) and removing European Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) populations was logged daily during 11 months of active population removal and 3.5 months of monitoring. The total effort expended on cat eradication, rabbit removal and monitoring included over 4800 person-hours of work and nearly 67,000 km of driving (of which 6700 km was for spotlighting), and the conduct of over 15,000 trap nights, 2300 km of sand tracking transects, and over 7800 camera-trap nights. Total costs (in 2015 figures) were estimated at just over AUD $390,000, which equates to approximately $50 per hectare. Cage trapping was most efficacious for catching cats, although it took nine months to capture the last individual, which was detected independently by both sand tracking transects and camera traps. This research provides baseline data on the resources required for future eradication and removal projects, particularly those within fenced reserves."	NonUS	Conservation
"Southern distinct population segment (sDPS) juvenile Green Sturgeon are thought to rear in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta for two to four years. The southern population segment has been listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. Habitat loss is cited as a significant driver in declines of the population. Specific to juvenile rearing, much of the historic floodplain habitat has been lost and replaced by leveed channelized waterways. In addition to geomorphic alterations, other direct and indirect activities such as water export, dredging, and the introduction of invasive species may have significant impacts to the viability of the species. The objective of this tracking study was to provide a first of its kind look at the movements and behaviors of wild caught juvenile Green Sturgeon within the putative nursery grounds of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. We acoustically tagged and continuously tracked six yearling juvenile Green Sturgeon with mean total length (TL) of 50.6cm (SD=5.3) and mean mass of 563.3g (SD=151.7). We performed continuous mobile tracking for a period of up to five days per individual while recording GPS coordinates, depths, and water temperature at the sturgeon's location. We used first-passage times, defined as the amount of time spent within a given area, for which a radius was determined post hoc. First passage times were used as a metric for parsing bouts of localized movements from directed movements. Our results indicate that juvenile Green Sturgeon largely oriented at or near the bottom. Depths utilized by all sturgeon ranged from >3m to 20m across all tracks. Individuals exhibited fidelity to the San Joaquin River Channel with only one individual leaving the main channel. Juvenile green sturgeon were shown to exhibit both positive and negative rheotaxis during sustained directed movements under independent ebb tidal cycles. This study provides the first detailed examination into the early life movements and behaviors of a rare species within their putative nursery grounds."	USA	Ecology
"Nitrogen is one of the fundamental nutrients for algal growth, underpinning the microalgal biochemical composition. Therefore, this study compared the growth and proximate compositions of Tetraselmis chuff (Butcher, 1959), cultured in different nitrate (NaNO3) concentrations (25, 50, 100, 200 and 500 mg L-1). Thus, the cell density, optical density, specific growth rate and division rate of T. chuii were measured daily. Furthermore, protein and carbohydrate contents were also determined in the stationary phase. The results showed that T. chuff cultivated in a NaNO3 concentration of 500 mg L-1 had significantly (p<0.05) higher growth in terms of cell density, biomass, optical density, specific growth rate and division rates compared with other concentrations. Likewise, protein content was also significantly higher under the NaNO3 concentration of 500 mg L-1, whereas significantly (p<0.05) higher carbohydrate content was found at 25 mg L-1 NaNO3 compared with the other concentrations, showing a contrary trend between protein and carbohydrate concentrations, respectively. Since the primary focus has been on improving the quality of microalgal biomass in order to develop novel processes and products, this is the first study to use higher concentrations of modified nitrate on T. chuii isolated from the coastal area of Bangladesh. Thus the indigenous marine T. chuff had significantly utilised NaNO3 concentrations with higher growth and proximate contents in this study. However, further study is needed on microalgal genetics and metabolic engineering to create a new molecular era of the indigenous marine microalgae isolated from the coastal water of Bengal."	NonUS	Ecology
"Hydrate reservoirs with underlying gas are generally accepted as the most promising energy resource for commercial exploitation. The underlying gas is an important part of the energy recovery of hydrate reservoirs. However, the gas production characteristics of hydrate reservoirs with underlying gas are rarely discussed. This paper aims to analyze the effects of underlying gas on the formation of hydrate and methane production behaviors by depressurization. In a core holder, marine soil obtained from the South China Sea was used to remold muddy low-permeability cores. The hydrate saturation of the muddy cores ranged from 25.2% to 48.3%. In this work, when the pressure difference between the underlying gas and the hydrate phase equilibrium is less than 2.6 MPa, the underlying gas pressure is the decisive factor for hydrate saturation. Besides, underlying gas can provide a relatively slow pressure drop rate for hydrate decomposition. The low permeability of the core caused by high hydrate saturation weakens the production of underlying gas and leads to the pressure gradient in the core. Hydrate decomposition front advances with the pressure gradient. Therefore, the production of underlying gas and hydrate decomposition are interdependent during depressurization. The experimental results demonstrated the existence of underlying gas could boost the exploitation potential and gas recoverability of hydrate reservoirs. These findings expand the understanding of joint exploitation characteristics and provide guidance in assessing the production potential for further researches and field exploitation of hydrate reservoirs with underlying gas."	NonUS	Technology
"Tourism is one of the most important issues facing marine protected areas (MPAs) and small islands worldwide. Tourism development is considered a contribution to pollution levels in the environment. This paper aims to evaluate the hypothetical effects of tourism development on water quality spatially and temporally using the coastal water quality index (CWQI) and Geographic Information System (GIS) in search of improved management for marine conservation areas. This study showed significant tourism influences on the CWQI in the Marine Tourism Park of the Gili Matra Islands, Lombok, Indonesia. Water quality variability indicates a significant spatiotemporal difference (p < 0.05) in the two tourism seasons. During the peak season of tourism, the CWQI decreased to poor conditions, i.e., ranging from 9.95 to 21.49 for marine biota and from 7.98 to 30.42 for marine tourism activities in 2013, and ranging from 39.52 to 44.42 for marine biota and from 44.13 to 47.28 for marine tourism activities, which were below the standard for both marine biota and marine tourism activities. On the contrary, it showed a better level (from poor to moderate) during the low season of tourism (ranging from 41.92 to 61.84 for marine biota and from 48.06 to 65.27 for marine tourism activities in 2014), providing a more acceptable condition for both aspects. The study proved that massive tourism development in the MPA and small islands could reduce water quality and increase vulnerability. Accordingly, integrated tourism management and the environment, waters, and land will be needed to develop sustainable tourism. The CWQI and GIS were applicable to assess water quality, both spatially and temporally, and become a quick reference in monitoring and initial evaluation of impact management."	NonUS	Conservation
"The brown macroalgae Rugulopteryx okamurae is described as one of the most severe and threatening invasive marine macroalgae in European waters. This study reports the first record of R. okamurae in the Madeira archipelago, which represents a new southern distribution limit of this species in NE Atlantic European waters. Morphological and molecular characters were used to confirm the species' identity, and its potential invasion risk in Madeiran waters was screened using the standard risk assessment tool AS-ISK. Results show that R. okamurae has a medium-high risk of becoming invasive in Madeira Island under present and future climate scenarios. The greater risk of impact involves suppressing local species growth and the modification and degradation of local habitats, including trophic cascade effects. However, environmental and commercial impacts could also occur in case of an explosion of the invasive populations. This new introduction in Madeira coastal waters emphasises the need for regular monitoring of R. okamurae, particularly to assess population dynamics to avoid establishing and further expansions. Finally, we recommend the evaluation of the possible derived impacts affecting rocky coastal communities and adopting the necessary mitigation measures and policies."	NonUS	Ecology
"Coastal marine fishes that form spawning aggregations most commonly exhibit a two-point movement pattern, with locations separated by migration: home range to spawning aggregation site and return to home range. However, the bonefish, Albula vulpes, partakes in a unique three-point spawning migration. Bonefish migrate up to 80 km from shallow water home flats to form nearshore pre-spawning aggregations (PSA) before moving offshore to spawn. Although these broad patterns have previously been documented, details of the offshore spawning-associated diving behavior have yet to be rigorously examined. Using active acoustic telemetry and sonar data in 2019 in Abaco, The Bahamas, we provide a complete account of bonefish offshore spawning movements and novel deep diving behavior to 137.9 m. Bonefish were continuously observed at depths >= 100 m for 2 h; a time period that included multiple depth changes and culminated in a spawning ascent to 67.3 m at 0.57 m s(-1). These new data on bonefish offshore movements and deep dives, coupled with CTD data, suggest that bonefish actively spawn at pycnoclines and thermoclines. Two previous tracking attempts (2013, 2018) at this location reflect spatiotemporal plasticity in spawning, a behavior counter to other aggregation forming fishes. This is the first detailed documentation of such deep spawning for a shallow water coastal fish species. The ecological motivation for diving to the deepest depths remains speculative. Future work must examine the dynamic relationship between bonefish diving behavior, spawning site selection, and oceanographic features."	USA	Fisheries
"Wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) play a pivotal role in removal of microplastics (MPs) particles before the waste streams are discharged into aquatic environments. Indiscriminate disposal of the effluent and untreated wastewater not only contribute to accumulation of MP in the marine environment, but they can also act as a carrier for various hydrophobic compounds and contributors of pollutants that leach from them via natural degradation. In this assessment, we have summarized the MP concentrations in influent and effluent streams, and provide quantification of the discharges from these WWTPs. Almost 50% of the global wastewater influent of 3,562,082 x 10(5) m(3) remains untreated. Some conservative estimates indicate that treated effluent disposal can add around 1.47 x 10(15) MPs annually, whereas the discharge of untreated effluent is likely to add a staggering 3.85 x 10(16) MPs annually to the aquatic environments. The efficiency of MP removal in wastewater treatment plants varies between 88 and 99.9%, indicating the potential of capturing the majority of the MP from escaping into the freshwater and marine environment. Based on WWTP removal efficiencies for MPs, calculations suggest that if all the globally produced wastewater was treated prior to release, a reduction of over 90% of the current amount of MP inputs into the aquatic environment could be achieved. From the number of studies conducted and assessments made on MPs in waste streams, it is obvious the methodologies followed were quite different, and the use of acids and heating are likely to deteriorate the MPs, emphasizing the need to develop harmonized protocols for microplastic assessment in wastewater treatment plants."	NonUS	Technology
"In the past decade, the field of coral reef restoration has experienced a proliferation of data detailing the source, genetics, and performance of coral strains used in research and restoration. Resource managers track the multitude of permits, species, restoration locations, and performance across multiple stakeholders while researchers generate large data sets and data pipelines detailing the genetic, genomic, and phenotypic variants of corals. Restoration practitioners, in turn, maintain records on fragment collection, genet performance, outplanting location and survivorship. While each data set is important in its own right, collectively they can provide deeper insights into coral biology and better guide coral restoration endeavors - unfortunately, current data sets are siloed with limited ability to cross-mine information for deeper insights and hypothesis testing. Herein we present the Coral Sample Registry (CSR), an online resource that establishes the first step in integrating diverse coral restoration data sets. Developed in collaboration with academia, management agencies, and restoration practitioners in the South Florida area, the CSR centralizes information on sample collection events by issuing a unique accession number to each entry. Accession numbers can then be incorporated into existing and future data structures. Each accession number is unique and corresponds to a specific collection event of coral tissue, whether for research, archiving, or restoration purposes. As such the accession number can serve as the key to unlock the diversity of information related to that sample's provenance and characteristics across any and all data structures that include the accession number field. The CSR is open-source and freely available to users, designed to be suitable for all coral species in all geographic regions. Our goal is that this resource will be adopted by researchers, restoration practitioners, and managers to efficiently track coral samples through all data structures and thus enable the unlocking of a broader array of insights."	USA	Technology
"Ostional in Costa Rica is the second largest nesting site of the olive ridley sea turtle Lepidochelys olivacea, which is categorized as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List. In Ostional the local community helps maintain the nesting site and collects olive ridley eggs for consumption and trade within Costa Rica. Since its inception in 1987 the egg harvesting project has integrated sea turtle conservation with community development. We assessed the current status of this project in terms of community awareness, dependency, involvement and perceptions, using a household survey and semi-structured interviews with key informants. We also compared some of our findings with those of previous studies at the site, finding that the project has fewer dependents, primary livelihood activities have shifted towards tourism and hospitality, and respondents are more aware about environmental conservation and stewardship. We map outcomes of the project with the Sustainable Livelihoods Framework, and suggest that further capacity building for research and tourism could contribute towards sustaining the turtle population, local livelihoods, and the community-based conservation institution."	NonUS	Conservation
"Synopsis The peripheral sensory systems, whose morphological attributes help determine the acquisition of distinct types of information, provide a means to quantitatively compare multiple modalities of a species' sensory ecology. We used morphological metrics to characterize multiple sensory modalities-the visual, olfactory, and mechanosensory lateral line sensory systems-for Gasterosteus aculeatus, the three-spined stickleback, to compare how sensory systems vary in animals that evolve in different ecological conditions. We hypothesized that the dimensions of sensory organs and correlations among sensory systems vary in populations adapted to marine and freshwater environments, and have diverged further among freshwater lake-dwelling populations. Our results showed that among environments, fish differed in which senses are relatively elaborated or reduced. When controlling for body length, littoral fish had larger eyes, more neuromasts, and smaller olfactory tissue area than pelagic or marine populations. We also found differences in the direction and magnitude of correlations among sensory systems for populations even within the same habitat type. Our data suggest that populations take different trajectories in how visual, olfactory, and lateral line systems respond to their environment. For the populations we studied, sensory modalities do not conform in a predictable way to the ecological categories we assigned."	USA	Ecology
"There have been 121 bryozoan species recorded from marine and freshwater ecosystems in Singapore. Here, 12 additional species, three of them new to science, are recorded for the first time in Singapore based on a targeted bryozoan collection campaign in 2019, bringing the bryozoan species tally to 133 species. The new records comprise one species each from the orders Cyclostomata and Ctenostomata and 10 species of Cheilostomata. Systematic notes are provided for the nine species representing new geographic records. One of them, a cyclostome of uncertain species identity, is left in open nomenclature. Full descriptions are provided for the new taxa, which comprise Reptadeonella riatanae, new species, Arthropoma subarensis, new species, and Microporella sargassophilia, new species. A full description and illustrations are also provided for topotypic material of a little-known cribrimorph cheilostome, Cribrilaria vicariata (Waters, 1923), for which Singapore is the type locality. Selected other species are illustrated by scanning electron microscopy for the first time. The majority of the species were found along the southern islands of mainland Singapore, mostly encrusting on coral rubble. The new records and species supplement the last comprehensive checklist produced in 2016, with prospects for further biodiversity discoveries and ecological analyses of the bryozoological fauna of Singapore. Targeted collecting of Bryozoa also yielded the first record of the hemichordate class Pterobranchia (Rhabdopleura sp.) in Singapore."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Evaluating the genetic diversity of natural populations of endangered species is important for conservation. Although the genetic analysis of wildlife usually requires collecting DNA non-invasively, the variety of non-invasive DNA sampling methods is limited for each species. We present a method to obtain DNA of an endangered species, the bonobo (Pan paniscus), in which the pith of the terrestrial herbaceous vegetation (THV) that they consumed was newly utilized. We investigated the (1) frequency of encountering remnant saliva on three types of THV pith; (2) concentrations of DNA in the saliva samples by the real-time quantitative PCR; and (3) rates of positive PCR, accurate genotyping, and allelic drop out by analyzing two autosomal microsatellite loci (D7s817 and D9s910). The number of remnant saliva samples was recorded by following the bonobo groups on a daily basis. The frequency of encountering DNA samples was higher in saliva samples than in fecal samples. More than half of the saliva samples remaining on two types of THV pith provided sufficient concentrations of bonobo DNA (>200pg/l). Rates of positive PCR and accurate genotyping were high, and allelic drop out rate was low when the amount of template DNA was above 200pg per reaction. Our results suggest that the remnants of bonobo saliva on the pith of THV are a potential resource for obtaining DNA, and better than other kinds of samples from the perspective of the abundant sampling opportunities."	NonUS	Genetics
"Nitrogen loading has been linked to eutrophication and seagrass bed declines worldwide, yet early warning signs and potential mitigating factors are often less clear. Our objective was to use published nitrogen loading model results together with eelgrass habitat surveys from 7 bays in Atlantic Canada to assess linkages between nitrogen loading, tidal flushing and bivalve aquaculture on observed eutrophication indicators in eelgrass habitats. Field surveys revealed significant differences in primary indicators (annual algae, tissue nitrogen) and secondary changes in eelgrass bed structure, yet no large loss of eelgrass cover or biomass. Multivariate analyses found positive correlations between nitrogen loading and eutrophication indicators, with distinct clusters of high- and low-impact sites, and the mitigating effects of flushing time and aquaculture. Our results highlight that combining measures of nitrogen loading, eutrophication indicators and mitigating factors can help detect early warning signs and assess eutrophication risk to inform management and conservation of coastal ecosystems before significant losses of seagrass occurs."	NonUS	Ecology
"Body size of bison (Bison bison) declines with rising global temperature across the fossil record and rising annual temperatures across the Great Plains, but what are the underlying drivers? Body size depends on growth, which depends on maximizing net energy and nutrient flows for the production of tissues at seasonal scales across the range of the species. We measured thermoregulation costs of body surface temperature (degrees C) and heat exchanges (W and W/m(2)) of 350 adult and 345 adolescentBisonfrom 19 herds in summer and winter along the Great Plains from Saskatchewan (52 degrees N) to Texas (30 degrees N). At the smallest scale, daily body surface temperature increased with solar radiation and decreased with relative humidity and wind speed, which is consistent with Kooijman's dynamic energy budget theory. Total surface heat transfer (W) increased with body mass (kg) at an exponent of 0.63 +/- 0.03, which is consistent with Schmidt-Nielsen's principle of surface-area-to-volume ratios (b = 0.67). On an annual scale, growth (kg/yr) of adolescentBisondecreased with increasing total surface heat transfer (W) during summer, which supports Speakman and Krol's heat dissipation limit theory. On the largest scale, heat flux was weakly related to latitude in summer and winter for adolescentBison, which provides support for Bergmann's rule and suggests a role for local primary production along the Great Plains. Cooler summers are more optimal forBisongrowth because of reduced heat loads during the growing season. Rising temperatures are likely to constrain body size and productivity ofBisonand other large endotherms in North America."	USA	ClimateChange
"To better understand the role of reactive Fe (Fe-R) in the preservation of sedimentary organic carbon (SOC) in estuarine sediments, we examined specific surface area, grain size composition, total OC (TOC), lignin phenols, Fe-R, Fe-R-associated OC (Fe-OC) and lignin phenols (Fe-lignin), and C-13 of Fe-R-associated OC (C-13(Fe-OC)) in surface sediments of the Changjiang Estuary and adjacent shelf. An estimated 7.43.5% of the OC was directly bound with Fe-R in the Changjiang Estuary and adjacent shelf. Unusually low TOC/specific surface area loadings and Fe-OC/Fe ratios in mobile muds suggest that frequent physical reworking may reduce Fe-R binding with OC, with selective loss of marine OC. More depleted C-13(Fe-OC) relative to C-13 of TOC (C-13(bulk)) in deltaic regions and mobile muds showed that Fe-R was largely associated with terrestrial OC, derived from extensive riverine OC and Fe inputs. A higher proportion of hematite in the mobile muds compared to the offshore samples indicated that Fe oxides are likely subjected to selective sorting and/or become mature during long-term sediment transport. When considering the percentage of Fe-OC to SOC and SOC burial rates in different marine environments (e.g., nondeltaic shelf, anoxic basins, slope, and deep sea), our findings suggest that about 15.66.5% of SOC is directly bound to Fe-R on a global scale, which is lower than the previous estimation (similar to 21.5%). This work further supports the notion of a Rusty Sink where, in this case, Fe-R plays an important role in the preservation and potential transport of terrestrial OC in the marine environment."	NonUS	Ecology
"Small pelagic fishes like sardine, anchovy, and mackerel play important commercial and ecological roles in the western North Pacific. We present a static, mass-balance 'Ecopath' model for this region, focusing on small pelagic fish species, as an initial step to evaluate the role of these fishes in this ecosystem. Our quasi sub-model structure has 3 blocks (coastal Oyashio, coastal Kuroshio, and offshore) that were established to take sub-regional differences of bottom topography and oceanography into consideration. This model consists of 41 functional groups and assumes that some species are endemic to a single block, while some migrating species occur in 2 or 3 blocks. We evaluated the quality of our model using pedigree and pre-balance diagnostics. The impact of fisheries on the marine ecosystem assessed by both the L-index, i.e. the index of loss in secondary production due to fisheries exploitation, and the impact of fisheries targeting small pelagic fishes on the total production of small pelagic fishes, are compared with other ecosystems. Both ecological indices indicate that the western North Pacific ecosystem is not overexploited. Our static mass-balanced Ecopath model will contribute to expanding ecological knowledge of the western North Pacific."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Gelatinous zooplankton play a crucial role in pelagic marine food webs, however, due to methodological challenges and persistent misconceptions of their importance, the trophic role of gelatinous zooplankton remains poorly investigated. This is particularly true for small gelatinous zooplankton including the marine pelagic tunicate, Dolioletta gegenbauri. D. gegenbauri and other doliolid species occur persistently on wide subtropical shelves where they often produce massive blooms in association with shelf upwelling conditions. As efficient filter feeders and prodigious producers of relatively low-density organic-rich aggregates, doliolids are understood to contribute significantly to shelf production, pelagic ecology, and pelagic-benthic coupling. Utilizing molecular gut content analysis and stable isotope analysis approaches, the trophic interactions of doliolids were explored during bloom and non-bloom conditions on the South Atlantic Bight continental shelf in the Western North Atlantic. Based on molecular gut content analysis, relative ingestion selectivity varied with D. gegenbauri life stage. At all life stages, doliolids ingested a wide range of prey types and sizes, but exhibited selectivity for larger prey types including diatoms, ciliates, and metazoans. Experimental growth studies confirmed that metazoan prey were ingested, but indicated that they were not digested and assimilated. Stable isotopic composition (delta C-13 and delta N-15) of wild-caught doliolids, during bloom and non-bloom conditions, were most consistent with a detrital-supplemented diet. These observations suggest that the feeding ecology of D. gegenbauri is more complex than previously reported, and have strong and unusual linkages to the microbial food web."	USA	Ecology
"The characiform fishes of the Neotropics and Africa radiated remarkably in ecomorphology, but the macroevolutionary processes responsible for their biodiversity remain unexplored, and the degree to which their continental diversification parallels classic adaptive radiations remains untested. We reconstruct their diversification using a new fossil-calibrated molecular phylogeny, dietary information, and geometric morphometrics. Though body shape diversified early in a manner consistent with an ancient continental adaptive radiation, trophic shifts did not always coincide with shape changes. With the notable exception of piscivores, lineages that converged in diet did not converge closely in body shape. Shifts in habitat or other variables likely influenced body shape evolution in addition to changes in diet, and the clade's history departs from many classic adaptive radiations in lakes or on islands, in which trophic convergence drives morphological convergence. The contrast between the Neotropical radiation's exhaustive exploration of morphospace and the more restrained diversification in Africa suggests a major role for contingency in characiform evolution, with the presence of cypriniform competitors in the Old World, but not the New, providing one possible explanation. Our results depict the clearest ecomorphological reconstruction to date for Characiformes and set the stage for studies further elucidating the processes underlying its diversification."	USA	Biodiversity
"Ocean acidification and warming are known to alter, and in many cases decrease, calcification rates of shell and reef building marine invertebrates. However, to date, there are no datasets on the combined effect of ocean pH and temperature on skeletal mineralization of marine vertebrates, such as fishes. Here, the embryos of an oviparous marine fish, the little skate (Leucoraja erinacea), were developmentally acclimatized to current and increased temperature and CO2 conditions as expected by the year 2100 (15 and 20 degrees C, approx. 400 and 1100 mu atm, respectively), in a fully crossed experimental design. Using micro-computed tomography, hydroxyapatite density was estimated in the mineralized portion of the cartilage in jaws, crura, vertebrae, denticles and pectoral fins of juvenile skates. Mineralization increased as a consequence of high CO2 in the cartilage of crura and jaws, while temperature decreased mineralization in the pectoral fins. Mineralization affects stiffness and strength of skeletal elements linearly, with implications for feeding and locomotion performance and efficiency. This study is, to my knowledge, the first to quantify a significant change in mineralization in the skeleton of a fish and shows that changes in temperature and pH of the oceans have complex effects on fish skeletal morphology."	USA	ClimateChange
"Context. Feral domestic cats (Fells catus) have contributed to substantial loss of Australian wildlife, particularly small- and medium-sized terrestrial mammals. However, mitigating cat impacts remains challenging. Understanding the factors that facilitate coexistence between native prey and their alien predators could aid better pest management and conservation actions. Aims. We estimated feral cat density, examined the impact of habitat cover on long-nosed potoroos (Potorous tridactylus tridactylus), and assessed the spatial and temporal interactions between cats and potoroos in the `Bluegums' area of French Island, south-eastern Australia. Materials and methods. We operated 31 camera stations across Bluegums for 99 consecutive nights in each of winter 2018 and summer 2018/19. We used a spatially explicit capture-recapture model to estimate cat density, and two-species single-season occupancy models to assess spatial co-occurrence of cats and potoroos. We assessed the influence of vegetation cover and cat activity on potoroo activity by using a dynamic occupancy model. We also used image timestamps to describe and compare the temporal activities of the two species. Key results. Bluegums had a density of 0.77 cats per km 2 across both seasons, although this is a conservative estimate because of the presence of unidentified cats. Cats and long-nosed potoroos were detected at 94% and 77% of camera stations, respectively. Long-nosed potoroo detectability was higher in denser vegetation and this pattern was stronger at sites with high cat activity. Cats and potoroos overlapped in their temporal activity, but their peak activity times differed. Conclusions. Feral cat density at Bluegums, French Island, is higher than has been reported for mainland Australian sites, but generally lower than in other islands. Long-nosed potoroos were positively associated with cats, potentially indicating cats tracking potoroos as prey or other prey species that co-occur with potoroos. Temporal activity of each species differed, and potoroos sought more complex habitat, highlighting possible mechanisms potoroos may use to reduce their predation risk when co-occurring with cats."	NonUS	Conservation
"Assessing the movements and habitat use of wide-ranging predators is critical for understanding their role within an ecosystem and vulnerability to anthropogenic threats. The bronze whaler (Carcharhinus brachyurus) is a large-bodied, slow-growing shark species that is widely distributed throughout temperate Australian waters. Currently, habitat use, spatio-temporal presence and fine-scale movement information is unknown for Southern Australian waters. This study investigated the spatio-temporal patterns of occurrence, habitat use, and residency of bronze whalers in Gulf St. Vincent, South Australia. Forty-seven predominately small juvenile bronze whalers (83% of tagged sharks<150cm TL) were tagged with acoustic transmitters from 2009 to 2014 and monitored for periods of up to 55months (range 516-1634days; mean +/- standard error 825 +/- 47). The seasonal presence of bronze whalers peaked in spring-early autumn (September-April). Site fidelity was high, with 77% of tagged sharks detected over multiple years and 36% detected over 3years. Low estimates of mean residency index (R-i=0.05 +/- 0.01) indicated that time spent within the array was limited. Shark occurrence was driven by a combination of factors, which included water temperature, season, moon illumination, and wind speed. Manly-Chesson's Electivity Index showed bronze whalers exhibited the highest affinity to seagrass (Posidonia spp.), suggesting that this habitat plays an important role in the early life history stages. The slow growth and low productivity of bronze whalers combined with its predictable nearshore occurrence result in this species having an increased susceptibility to anthropogenic threats, which highlights the need for continued monitoring and vulnerability assessments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Integrating agroecosystems as bird habitats are very important for long-term conservation planning because intensified agricultural land use has been a global threat to avifauna. To make agriculture compatible with conservation, farming communities play a vital role because the adoption of bird-friendly agricultural practices and involvement in bird conservation initiatives depends much on their acceptance and attitudes toward avian species. In this study, we inter-viewed 376 farmers surrounding the Indawgyi Wetland Ecosystem in Myanmar to investigate the distribution of avian damages to agricultural crops as well as farmers' perspectives about damage mitigations and bird conservation. Results showed that bird-inflicted crop losses were higher in fields close to water and farmers who experienced a higher level of crop damage were more supportive of the need for a compensation scheme and control management of exploiting species. However, when the level of crop damage increased, farmers living away from water became more negative toward the involved species than those living close to water. Findings also indicated that farmers' willingness to conserve birds decreased with increasing distance to water. Villages adjacent to the lake zone were more willing to conserve both exploiting and non-exploiting birds than those living along the stream. We suggest ecosystem-friendly damage mitigation measures and coexistence strategies, especially in areas close to the water, maintaining both bird conser-vation objectives as well as farmers' economic objectives."	NonUS	Conservation
"Taiwan is surrounded by oceans with rich marine biodiversity. Thus, marine ecosystem services play a crucial role in sustaining the society. Key to conserving the marine environment and resources has been the designation of marine protected areas (MPAs). As of February 2022, Taiwan had 46 MPAs. While improving governance of these MPAs has long been under discussion in Taiwan, little progress has been made. Therefore, this study reviews all Taiwanese MPAs to identify management concerns and possible solutions from a perspective of governance. It provides findings on the background of MPAs, pertinent issues regarding the current governance system, and methods for improvement of MPA governance based on benchmark models. Also, this study proposes that integration approaches and sustainable mechanisms are essential components for improving MPA governance. Furthermore, the Taiwanese MPA experience could be a valuable reference to inform marine practices and academics worldwide."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Background Transmissible cancers lie at the intersection of oncology and infectious disease, two traditionally divergent fields for which gene expression studies are particularly useful for identifying the molecular basis of phenotypic variation. In oncology, transcriptomics studies, which characterize the expression of thousands of genes, have identified processes leading to heterogeneity in cancer phenotypes and individual prognoses. More generally, transcriptomics studies of infectious diseases characterize interactions between host, pathogen, and environment to better predict population-level outcomes. Tasmanian devils have been impacted dramatically by a transmissible cancer (devil facial tumor disease; DFTD) that has led to widespread population declines. Despite initial predictions of extinction, populations have persisted at low levels, due in part to heterogeneity in host responses, particularly between sexes. However, the processes underlying this variation remain unknown. Results We sequenced transcriptomes from healthy and DFTD-infected devils, as well as DFTD tumors, to characterize host responses to DFTD infection, identify differing host-tumor molecular interactions between sexes, and investigate the extent to which tumor gene expression varies among host populations. We found minimal variation in gene expression of devil lip tissues, either with respect to DFTD infection status or sex. However, 4088 genes were differentially expressed in tumors among our sampling localities. Pathways that were up- or downregulated in DFTD tumors relative to normal tissues exhibited the same patterns of expression with greater intensity in tumors from localities that experienced DFTD for longer. No mRNA sequence variants were associated with expression variation. Conclusions Expression variation among localities may reflect morphological differences in tumors that alter ratios of normal-to-tumor cells within biopsies. Phenotypic variation in tumors may arise from environmental variation or differences in host immune response that were undetectable in lip biopsies, potentially reflecting variation in host-tumor coevolutionary relationships among sites that differ in the time since DFTD arrival."	USA	Genetics
"Background: Vibrio spp. is the major infection-producing marine bacteria in commercially important bivalve Paphia undulata. The host resistance is the major determining factor for the development of pathogenesis. To explore defense mechanisms, researchers have focused primarily on the study of differential expression of individual or specific groups of host immune genes during pathogen-challenge. Results: We compared the expression profile in the surf clams infected with avirulent V. alginolyticus and virulent V. parahaemolyticus to mark the possible molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis. Comparison of the differentially expressed genes between the two groups of Vibrio-infected clams revealed that the number of down-regulate genes in V. parahaemolyticus injected clams (1433) were significantly higher than the other group (169). Based on Gene Ontology classification, a large proportion of these down-regulate genes were found to be associated with cellular and molecular mechanisms for pathogen recognition, and immunity development thereby explaining the low survival rate for the V. parahaemolyticus-treated clams and suggesting a higher virulence of this bacterium towards the surf clams. Quantitative real-time PCR of 24 candidate genes related to immunity involving the JAKSTAT signaling pathway, complementary cascade, cytokine signaling pathway, oxidative stress, phagocytosis and apoptosis down regulated under V. parahaemolyticus infection, indicating compromised host defense. Furthermore, we could demonstrate a central role of JAK-STAT pathway in bacterial clearance. dsRNA mediated depletion of a clam STAT homolog gene results in dramatic increase in the infection by V. alginolyticus, a mildly pathogenic strain under control conditions. Conclusions: The difference in gene expression profiles in surf clams treated with two Vibrio species with a differential pathogenicity to P. undulate and downstream molecular analysis could enlighten on the probable molecular mechanisms of the Vibrio pathogenesis and the virulence of V. parahaemolyticus in surf clams, which also benefits to develop new strategies for disease control in surf calm aquaculture."	NonUS	Genetics
"Although bonefish,Albula vulpes, supports a culturally and socio-economically important recreational fishery in the Caribbean Sea, little is known about their population characteristics. Understanding their population parameters are important for the creation of a sustainable fishery strategy in the Caribbean region. We used multistate modeling to estimate apparent survival, recapture probability, and movement of bonefish in the regions of Corozal-Chetumal Bay (CB) and the adjacent Caribbean coast (CC) of Belize and Mexico. We marked 9657 bonefish and recaptured 613 (6.5% recapture rate). A total of 64 multistate models were run in program MARK. The model with the lowest Akaike Information Criterion was the most parsimonious model that supported our data: constant apparent survival in CC but variable in CB; time-dependent recapture probability in CC and CB; and time-dependent movement between regions. The latter reflects a seasonal migration from the bay to spawn in the Caribbean during the north-winds season. The seasonal differences in apparent survival (CC = 63.6% and CB = 80.6%) and recapture probability (CC = 1.3% and CB =11.1%) are associated to spawning mortality, a post-spawning relocation, ontogenetic shift, predation, angling activities, site fidelity or a combination of these. These findings reinforces the association of environmental variables influenced by weather patterns with movement patterns, the entire region to be considered a single geographic catchment area necessary to sustain a local bonefish population and the need for a paradigm shift from a traditional to a new system of fisheries conservation and management using bonefish as an umbrella species."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Intraspecific diversity promotes evolutionary change, and when partitioned among geographic regions or habitats can form the basis for speciation. Marine species live in an environment that can provide as much scope for diversification in the vertical as in the horizontal dimension. Understanding the relevant mechanisms will contribute significantly to our understanding of eco-evolutionary processes and effective biodiversity conservation. Here, we provide an annotated genome assembly for the deep-sea fish Coryphaenoides rupestris and re-sequencing data to show that differentiation at non-synonymous sites in functional loci distinguishes individuals living at different depths, independent of horizontal spatial distance. Our data indicate disruptive selection at these loci; however, we find no clear evidence for differentiation at neutral loci that may indicate assortative mating. We propose that individuals with distinct genotypes at relevant loci segregate by depth as they mature (supported by survey data), which may be associated with ecotype differentiation linked to distinct phenotypic requirements at different depths."	NonUS	Genetics
"Simple Summary Predator-prey relationships and competition shape interspecific coexistence in wildlife communities. So far, most published studies have focused on large carnivores and their prey, whereas little is known about medium and small-sized mammal communities. The European brown hare Lepus europaeus is a widespread species in Europe and is part of the diet of many birds of prey and mammalian carnivores of all sizes. Furthermore, competition with other herbivorous mammals at feeding sites has also been suggested. In an area in Central Italy, we have assessed spatiotemporal overlap among brown hare and its potential predators (red fox Vulpes vulpes, pine marten Martes martes, domestic cat Felis catus, and domestic dog Canis familiaris) and a competitor (roe deer Capreolus capreolus). We showed that, outside a fenced area excluding predators and competitors, brown hares become more nocturnal and more active on dark nights to limit encounters with predators, and that they adopt spatial partitioning to avoid competitors, as expected by ecological theory. Analysis of spatiotemporal partitioning is pivotal to shed light on interspecific coexistence. Most research effort has involved large-sized carnivores and their prey, whereas little attention has been devoted to lagomorphs. We assessed spatiotemporal overlap among the European brown hare Lepus europaeus and its potential competitors and predators through camera-trapping in an area in Central Italy. We estimated the interspecific patterns of the spatiotemporal activity rhythms of brown hares, its potential predators (the red fox Vulpes vulpes, the pine marten Martes martes, the domestic cat Felis catus, and the domestic dog Canis familiaris), and a competitor, the roe deer Capreolus capreolus. Brown hare activity was studied in natural conditions as well as in a fenced area that excluded terrestrial predators and competitors. Free-ranging hares developed a more nocturnal behavior to avoid diurnal predators (i.e., domestic carnivores and martens). Although high temporal overlap was observed between free-ranging brown hares and both red foxes (82%) and roe deer (81%), hares avoided fox by being more active on darkest nights, as well as avoided roe deer through spatial partitioning. We suggest that hares may adapt their spatiotemporal behavior to avoid potential predators and competitors."	NonUS	Ecology
"The application of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in the monitoring and management of rangelands has exponentially increased in recent years due to the miniaturization of sensors, ability to capture imagery with high spatial resolution, lower altitude platforms, and the ease of flying UAVs in remote environments. The aim of this research was to develop a method to estimate forage mass in rangelands using high-resolution imagery derived from the UAV using a South Texas pasture as a pilot site. The specific objectives of this research were to (1) evaluate the feasibility of quantifying forage mass in semi-arid rangelands using a double sampling technique with high-resolution imagery and (2) to compare the effect of altitude on forage mass estimation. Orthoimagery and digital surface models (DSM) with a resolution <1.5 cm were acquired with an UAV at altitudes of 30, 40, and 50 m above ground level (AGL) in Duval County, Texas. Field forage mass data were regressed on volumes obtained from a DSM. Our results show that volumes estimated with UAV data and forage mass as measured in the field have a significant relationship at all flight altitudes with best results at 30-m AGL (r(2)= 0.65) and 50-m AGL (r(2)= 0.63). Furthermore, the use of UAVs would allow one to collect a large number of samples using a non-destructive method to estimate available forage for grazing animals."	USA	Technology
"Wetland ecosystems perform a multitude of services valued by society and provide critical habitat for migratory birds and other wildlife. Despite their importance, wetlands have been lost to different local, regional, and global drivers. Remaining wetlands are extremely sensitive to changing temperature and precipitation regimes. Management of grassland areas in wetland catchments may be an effective strategy for counteracting potentially negative impacts of climate change on wetlands. Our objective was to estimate the effects of climate changes on wetland hydrology, and to explore strategies for increasing surface-water inputs to wetlands. We coupled a field study with process-based simulation modeling of wetland-water levels. We found that climate change could decrease the number of wetlands that hold ponded water during the waterfowl breeding season by 14% under a hot wet scenario or 29% under a hot dry scenario if no upland-management actions were taken. Upland burning reduced pond losses to 9% (hot wet) and 26% (hot dry). Upland grazing resulted in the smallest loss of ponded wetlands, 6% loss under the hot-and-wet scenario and 22% loss under the hot-and-dry scenario. Overall, water inputs could be increased by either burning or grazing of upland vegetation thereby reducing pond losses during the waterfowl breeding season. While field results suggest that both grazing and burning can reduce the vegetative structure that could lead to increases in runoff in grassland catchments, our model simulations indicated that additional actions may be needed for managers to minimize future meteorologically driven water losses."	USA	ClimateChange
"The extinction of fish species can direct and indirectly affect many groups of associated species, among which parasite communities can be the most susceptible. However, the intensity of this effect depends on the structure interaction networks. This study evaluated whether networks constituted of fish ectoparasites or endoparasites differed in their robustness to the loss of host species and to what extent these potential differences are explained by the network structures. We used path models to evaluate the direct and indirect effects of host and parasite richness, connectance, and nestedness on the robustness of ecto- and endoparasite-based networks. In most cases, nestedness was the descriptor that best explained the robustness of the fish-parasite networks, and co-extinctions are less likely when the fish species act mainly as hosts of the generalist parasites. Both the richness of the host species and connectance in the networks have an essential indirect influence on robustness. Regardless of the extinction sequence, the ectoparasite-based networks showed higher vulnerability to host species loss when compared to endoparasite-based networks. These findings highlight the importance of considering both ecto- from endoparasites to better understand the structure and vulnerability of host-parasite networks."	NonUS	Ecology
"The Southern Ocean is one of the most exposed regions to climate-related changes on our planet. Better understanding of the current biodiversity and past speciation events, as well as implementation of conservation actions and accurate identification of organisms to species level in this unique environment, is fundamental. In this study, two species of sea stars, Odontaster roseus Janosik & Halanych, 2010 and Odontaster pearsei Janosik & Halanych, 2010, are reported for the first time from the Terra Nova Bay area (TNB, Ross Sea, Antarctica) by using a combination of molecular (DNA barcoding) and morphological (coloration and skeletal features) analyses. Molecular results agree with external morphological characters of the two identified species, making occurrence in the area unequivocal. The two species were recently described from the Antarctic Peninsula, and went unnoticed for a long time in TNB, possibly having been confused with O. meridionalis (E.A. Smith, 1876), with which they share a bright yellow coloration. This latter species seems to be absent in the Ross Sea. Thus, the past literature referring to O. meridionalis in the Ross Sea should be treated with caution as these yellow morphs could be one of the two recently described species or even orange-yellow morphs of the red-colored congeneric O. validus Koehler, 1906. This work highlights the paucity of knowledge even in purportedly well-studied areas and in iconic Antarctic organisms."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Our study presents a revision of the structural characteristics of the soft-bottom benthic communities in the Belgian Part of the North Sea (BPNS) and provides, for the first time, an insight into their functional characteristics. Compared to previous research, the dataset expanded considerably on a spatial and temporal scale (1994-2012). Five communities were identified, each with their own structural characteristics, indicator species, sediment properties and spatial distribution. The offshore area was dominated by the Hesionura elongata community (formerly Ophelia borealis), and although previously described by low diversity and abundance, this study shows that this community has the second highest sample diversity and moderate densities. Also, a new community, the Magelona-Ensis leei community, was found in very shallow water and characterized by low diversity and the dominance of the non-indigenous species E. leei. The structural characteristics and spatial distribution of the previously described Limecola balthica, Abra alba and Nephtys cirrosa community remained largely unchanged. Though structurally distinct, the communities overlap in some of their functional attributes. Analysis of biological traits revealed that in the coarser permeable sands, both the N. cirrosa and H. elongata community harbor more free living mobile individuals, causing diffusive mixing. The finer sand (A. alba, Magelona- Ensis leei) and muddy (L. balthica) communities hold more sessile, tube building and burrow dwelling species. Apart from diffusive mixing, sediment reworking in these finer sands occurs by surface deposition and downward convection. In combination with higher densities and biomass, this results in a higher bioturbation potential (BPc) for the Abra alba and Magelona-Ensis leei community. Finally, measures for functional diversity and redundancy were calculated, and were also highest in the Abra alba and Hesionura elongata community, thus demonstrating the importance of both communities for conservation purposes from a structural as well as a functional perspective. The analyses revealed that even in well-studied areas new data give new insights, with important consequences for management. Our study forms a benchmark for future ecosystem health status assessments in the framework of international and national nature management obligations such as the European Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD), the Habitats Directive and the Marine Spatial Planning Directive."	NonUS	Ecology
"What happens in meadows after populations of natural grazers rebound following centuries of low abundance? Many seagrass ecosystems are now experiencing this phenomenon with the recovery of green turtles (Chelonia mydas), large-bodied marine herbivores that feed on seagrasses. These seagrass ecosystems provide a rare opportunity to study ecosystem-wide shifts that result from a recovery of herbivores. We evaluate changes in regulation of seagrass productivity in a naturally grazed tropical ecosystem by (1) comparingThalassia testudinumproductivity in grazed and ungrazed areas and (2) evaluating potential regulating mechanisms ofT. testudinumproductivity. We established 129 green turtle exclusion cages in grazed and ungrazed areas to quantifyT. testudinumgrowth (linear, area, mass, productivity : biomass [P:B]). In each exclosure, we recorded temperature, irradiance, water depth, nitrogen : phosphorus ratio (N:P) of blade tissue, grazing intensity before cage placement, andT. testudinumstructural and nutrient characteristics.Thalassia testudinumexhibited compensatory growth in grazed areas via stimulated blade linear growth, blade area growth, and P:B across seasonal high and low growth periods and in shallow (3-4 m) and deep (9-10 m) seagrass meadows. Irradiance, depth, and N:P ratios had significant roles in regulating mass growth and P:B ofT. testudinumin ungrazed areas. Depth was a significant regulating factor of mass growth and P:B in grazed areas; rates were higher and more variable in shallow meadows than in deep meadows. Grazing intensity was also a significant regulating factor for P:B, stimulating tissue turnover with increasing grazing pressure. This study provides important insights into how recovery of a large marine herbivore can result in dramatic, sustainable changes in the regulation of seagrass productivity. We also highlight the need for a historical perspective and use of appropriate indicators, including P:B and grazing intensity, when evaluating seagrass response to green turtle grazing as meadows are returned to a natural grazed state. In an age of green turtle recovery and global seagrass decline due to anthropogenic threats, a thorough understanding of green turtle-seagrass interactions at the ecosystem level is critical to ensure the restoration of seagrass ecosystems and continued recovery of green turtle populations."	USA	Ecology
"Reef manta rays (Mobula alfredi) are capable of long-distance dispersal when habitat is continuous. In the Ningaloo Reef World Heritage Area located on Australia's mid-west coast, M. alfredi is sighted year-round and is a focal species for ecotourism in the region. Despite value to local tourism and demographic vulnerability to exploitation, basic information regarding M. alfredi movements and area use in this region is lacking. Here we used satellite tags and a long-term photographic-identification database collected by researchers and citizen scientists to examine the species' visitation patterns and regional space use. Tagged M. alfredi remained in coastal shelf waters, preferentially occupying shallow depths < 20 m (76% of depth observations). Comparison of real tracks against those produced by correlated random walk simulations revealed directional dispersal and connectivity between the Ningaloo and Shark Bay World Heritage Areas. The greatest linear distance an individual moved after tagging was similar to 700 km. This movement range is comparable to seasonal M. alfredi migration observed at similar latitudes on Australia's east coast. Photographic-identification of 1121 individual M. alfredi, from 5146 sighting events, revealed that some individuals exhibited long-term site affinity to locations within Ningaloo Marine Park, with the longest spanning 15.16 years (9.8% individuals > 10 years). Lagged Identification Rate analysis suggested site visitation was best described by a pattern of emigration and reimmigration. While our observations of movement and residency establishes basic information previously unknown for the species in this region, the overlap of core area use with existing UNESCO World Heritage Areas demonstrates the potential for well-positioned marine parks to provide protection of critical habitat for M. alfredi."	NonUS	Ecology
"Over the last four decades in the Philippines, a range of management tools such as marine protected area (MPA) establishment and coastal resources management (CRM) that includes localized species-specific management, marine habitat rehabilitation, and organizing communities for increased participation in planning and decision making have led to improvements of marine habitats and fish stocks in areas where such tools were applied. In spite of these management advances, fishers particularly in the municipal fisheries sector continue to observe declines in either the quantity or quality of their catch, and attribute this not only to the continued use of highly efficient and ecologically destructive fishing gears, but also, the unregulated numbers of fishers and gears within municipal waters. Recognizing this as a pivotal challenge, the USAID-funded Ecosystems Improved for Sustainable Fisheries (ECOFISH) Project developed a process for the right-sizing of fishing effort as a potential application of the ecosystems approach to fisheries management (EAFM) to directly address the issue of unregulated fishing effort in Philippine municipal fisheries. The objective is to determine via a participatory process a configuration of fishing effort that can be sustainably supported by the ecosystem, and at the same time, can provide adequate fish catches to support the livelihood needs of fishers in a defined marine key biodiversity area (MKBA). The ecosystem and livelihood tradeoffs are investigated using the Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE) modeling and simulation tool. The entire process adopts a multi-stakeholder set-up that featured highly participatory learning activities, consensus-building negotiations between local government units (LGUs), and science-based decision-making workshops. All in all, it consists of strategically tailored yet adaptive sessions to effectively engage stakeholders in understanding the concept of fishing effort right-sizing, to acquaint participants with the basic biological and ecological principles governing the fisheries, and subsequently, to raise the participants' confidence in the decision-making and negotiation processes. The consensus-based MKBA-wide fishing effort targets considered both the system-scale and the diverse localized management priority objectives of the different user representatives. Across the 8 ECOFISH MKBAs, improving equity in the access of fisheries resource benefits emerged as a principal priority objective. Improving the ecosystem structure as evidenced by large, predatory fishes and minimizing fisher displacement outweighed maximizing catch and incomes as overriding priorities in the decision-making. The project envisions that the consensus-based fishing effort allocation will ultimately serve as basis for the regulated issuance of fisheries licenses by the respective LGUs and for the right-sizing process to serve as a model for determining fishing effort allocation options in other municipal fisheries systems in the country."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Amphibians inhabiting montane riparian zones in the Neotropics are particularly vulnerable to decline, but the reasons are poorly understood. Because environmental contaminants, endocrine disruption, and pathogens often figure prominently in amphibian declines it is imperative that we understand how these factors are potentially interrelated to affect montane populations. One possibility is that increased precipitation associated with global warming promotes the deposition of contaminants in montane regions. Increased exposure to contaminants, in turn, potentially elicits chronic elevations in circulating stress hormones that could contribute to montane population declines by compromising resistance to pathogens and/ or production of sex steroids regulating reproduction. Here, we test this hypothesis by examining contaminant levels, stress and sex steroid levels, and nematode abundances in male drab treefrogs, Smilisca sordida, from lowland and montane populations in Costa Rica. We found no evidence that montane populations were more likely to possess contaminants (i.e., organochlorine, organophosphate and carbamate pesticides or benzidine and chlorophenoxy herbicides) than lowland populations. We also found no evidence of elevational differences in circulating levels of the stress hormone corticosterone, estradiol or progesterone. However, montane populations possessed lower androgen levels, hosted more nematode species, and had higher nematode abundances than lowland populations. Although these results suggested that nematodes contributed to lower androgens in montane populations, we were unable to detect a significant inverse relationship between nematode abundance and androgen level. Our results suggest that montane populations of this species are not at greater risk of exposure to contaminants or chronic stress, but implicate nematodes and compromised sex steroid levels as potential threats to montane populations."	USA	Ecology
"Numerous ecological studies on myxobacteria have been conducted, but their true diversity remains largely unknown. To bridge this gap, we implemented a comprehensive survey of diversity and distribution of myxobacteria by using 4997 publicly available 16S rRNA gene sequences (>= 1200 bp) collected from several hundred sites across multiple countries and regions. In this study, the meta-16S rRNA gene phylogenetic reconstruction clearly revealed that these sequences could be classified into 998 species, 445 genera, 58 families, and 20 suborders, the great majority of which belonged to new taxa. Most cultured myxobacteria were strongly inclined to locate on the shallow branches of the phylogenetic tree; on the contrary, the majority of uncultured myxobacteria located on the deep branches. The geographical analysis of sequences based on their environmental categories clearly demonstrated that myxobacteria show a nearly cosmopolitan distribution, despite the presence of some habitat-specific taxa, especially at the genus and species levels. Among the abundant suborders, Suborder_4, Suborder_15, and Suborder_17 were more widely distributed in marine environments, while the remaining suborders preferred to reside in terrestrial ecosystems. In conclusion, this study profiles a clear framework of diversity and distribution of cosmopolitan myxobacteria and sheds light on the isolation of uncultured myxobacteria."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Context. Successful eradications of invasive rats from islands are paying tremendous conservation dividends, but failed eradications are economically and environmentally costly. For an eradication using rodenticides, every rat in every habitat must have sufficient exposure to toxic bait to receive a lethal dose. A post-operational review of a failed rat eradication on Wake Atoll, central Pacific Ocean, suggested that inadequate treatment of an intertidal habitat within the lagoon might have caused or contributed to the failure to kill all Polynesian rats (Rattus exulans), which have since recovered in number. This habitat could not be treated by aerial broadcast due to concerns about loss of bait to tidal action and perceived contamination of the marine environment. Aims. In preparation for a second attempt, we developed two alternative bait application strategies to distribute enough bait for a long enough period of time to successfully target rats, while minimising bait entering the ocean. Methods. We used camera traps and experimental bait provisioning methods to document rat foraging in the target habitat and uptake of bait. We developed two baiting strategy alternatives, and employed one of these strategies in a placebo bait application to demonstrate bait uptake by rats foraging within this tidally inundated habitat. Key results. Our results show active foraging by rats in the target habitat. Provisioning of placebo bait by various means preventing bait spillage into the marine environment was followed by heavy feeding by rats and minimal bait interference by crabs. Conclusions. We consider it likely that such a bait application strategy will be considered as an alternative during a future eradication attempt on Wake Atoll. Implications. The techniques we explore here will be useful for rodent suppression in other wetland areas requiring rodent control while protecting sensitive aquatic resources."	USA	Conservation
"The Himalayan brown bear (Ursus arctos isabellinus) is an endangered subspecies of brown bear (U. a. spp.) and is found throughout the Himalayan region of south and central Asia. We describe the type of and the current level of human-bear conflict (HBC) with Himalayan brown bears in the Zanskar region of northern India and suggest potential mitigation methods. Between July and September 2018, we interviewed 218 households across the Zanskar region, all of whom had experienced HBC. Participants reported increasing numbers of HBC events in the last 4 years. The most common form of HBC was damage to granaries where food is stored (50%). As a result of HBC, most participants said they feared bears (95%) and did not like them (73%). However, 95% of participants thought that the Himalayan brown bear should be conserved. We conclude that local people are receptive to bear conservation, but the current measures are insufficient to protect property and livestock. We encourage community involvement in bear monitoring as well as installation of bear-resistant food containers, solar lights, and electric fences to reduce incidences of HBC and foster tolerance of bears in Zanskar, India."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Uptake of tidal turbine technology to generate renewable energy has been partly limited by poor understanding of ecological impacts, including the potential for collisions between cetaceans and rotating turbine blades. To address this concern, it is necessary to identify whether cetaceans behaviourally respond to operating turbines. A turbine in Scotland was instrumented with hydrophones to detect cetacean vocalizations. A generalized additive model was used to investigate temporal variability in harbour porpoise presence close to the turbine. As there were incidentally periods when the turbine was not operating, it was possible to determine the effect of blade rotation, whilst accounting for the potentially confounding effect of tidal flow. Harbour porpoise presence varied intra-annually, diurnally and with tidal state. Peak presence occurred during winter (September-February), at night and at high flow speeds on the flood tide. Porpoises exhibited significant avoidance of the tidal turbine when it was operating; avoidance increased with flow speed, whereby mean porpoise presence was reduced by up to 78% (95% CIs, 51%, 91%) on the flood tide and up to 64% (95% CI, 3%, 91%) on the ebb tide. The temporal variability in encounter rate in the present study highlights that collision risk assessments assuming static densities probably fail to capture the temporal variability of collision risk. Future studies should conduct long-term baseline monitoring to derive encounter rates at larger spatio-temporal scales and as a reference from which to measure change in habitat use. It is also critical that the generality of the avoidance rates presented here is assessed for other sites, turbine types, array sizes and cetacean species. As the tidal industry expands, it will be important to reconcile the benefits of avoidance responses from a collision risk perspective with potential chronic effects of displacement from, or barriers between, important habitats."	NonUS	Ecology
"Physaria globosa (Brassicaceae), commonly known as Short's Bladderpod, is a federally protected species restricted to Tennessee, Kentucky, and southern Indiana. In 2016, we studied aspects of life history and ecology in a population of P. globosa near Hartsville, Tennessee. Our objectives were to document fecundity-related life history traits and to examine the potential influence of light levels and soil depth on plant growth and reproductive output. In addition, we examined 45 herbarium specimens of P. globosa to assess the potential relationship between taproot size and number of inflorescences per plant. We found the strongest positive relationships between the number of flowering stems per plant and the number of flowers and fruits per plant. Relationships between light levels, soil depth, and biotic factors were only weakly significant. Taproot width was positively correlated with the number of flowering stems on herbarium specimens. Our findings increase the life history and ecology knowledge base available to guide ongoing recovery efforts for the species."	USA	Ecology
"Western Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia hypugaea; hereafter, Burrowing Owls) were once widespread residents of grasslands throughout western North America, but their range has contracted, and abundance has declined in some regions. The causes of declines and geographic variation in population trends of Burrowing Owls are unclear but may be linked to changing land use and urbanization. Burrowing Owls are often found in association with airfields and airports, and their presence at such facilities is sometimes considered to be in conflict with those operations. Documenting the long-term persistence of Burrowing Owls at active airfields can help airfield managers who face decisions regarding compatibility of owls and airfield operations. We report the results of a long-term effort to monitor Burrowing Owls on Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico, USA, including the rapid recovery of Burrowing Owl numbers from near-extirpation and the relationships between abundance and other demographic traits. The number of breeding pairs of Burrowing Owls increased from one pair in 2013 to 28 pairs in 2019 and 2020, and the number of fledglings produced increased from one in 2013 to 84 in 2019 and 61 in 2020. The recovery was not uniform across all areas of Kirtland Air Force Base, and some formerly occupied areas remained unoccupied. We documented dispersal outside the Air Force base boundary and that the number of breeding pairs was more strongly influenced by the number of offspring produced in the prior year than the number of owls returning from prior years, which indicated that the population is part of a larger metapopulation. Our results demonstrate that the maintenance of Burrowing Owl populations is not necessarily at odds with safe airfield operations, that Burrowing Owls exhibit complex population dynamics, and can rapidly recolonize previously occupied areas if habitat and nest sites remain suitable."	USA	HumanWildlife
"The abundance of Atlantic salmon in Europe has declined throughout its native range. One of the main causes is low marine survival, which has been mainly attributed to overexploitation at sea, but global warming, decreased zooplankton abundance in the North Atlantic and local changes in freshwater conditions have been also blamed. It has been also pointed out that Southern populations experience the greatest decline, but information from these areas in Europe is scarce, and also in Spain there are few long-term data series related with the salmon recovery programs carried out. In this paper, we analyse a long-term data set (1992 - 2018) provided by a fish-trap located in the Ulla River (Galicia, NW Spain), at the southern limit of the salmon distribution range. Salmon restocking programs have been carried out in this river from 2000, and although this management technique is widely accepted, it is necessary to document the fate of those individuals to evaluate their success. Segmented regression models (or piecewise regression) are applied here for the first time to estimate the value of the explanatory variable (the so called break-point) which can indicate the potential success of the recovery program in this river. Data analysis suggest a gradual population increase to the early 1990s, then remained relatively stable until 2007 and increased thereafter due to an increase in the number of wild salmon entering the river. An increase in the frequency of appearance of 3SW salmon since 2009 was detected, both including previous spawners and individuals at its first spawning migration after three consecutive winters at sea. Data suggest an increase in number of wild salmon entering the river. Restoring river connectivity has also helped to enhance this population. We finally consider that the increase in the number of returning salmons in the Ulla River achieved over this period is due not only to the good management and conservation practices related to salmon stocking, but also to the connectivity restoration in the river and to a higher marine survival rate."	NonUS	Fisheries
"The spatiotemporal distribution and ecology of the suprabenthic and benthic mega-crustaceans were studied in the shelf-shelf break of Turkish waters of the eastern Mediterranean Sea (Antalya Gulf). Sampling was conducted seasonally in May 2014, August, October, and February 2015 using an otter trawl at depths of 10, 25, 75, 125 and 200 m along three transects. A total of 59 species were identified comprising 53 decapods (Eumalacostraca: Eucarida), 3 isopods (Eumalacostraca: Peracarida), and 3 stomatopods (Hoplocarida). Eighteen of the total identifiable species were invasive, and some of them significantly influenced the crustacean community structure. Parapenaeus longirostris, Pagurus prideaux, Charybdis (Goniohellenus) longicollis and Medorippe lanata were the most common species. Parasquilla ferussaci was reported for the first time in Turkish water of the Levantine Sea. Community structure showed seasonal patterns and differed along the depth gradient of habitat heterogeneity. The megabenthic crustacean assemblage was driven mainly by seafloor depth and was related to the fishing disturbance in the area (fishing/no-fishing zones). Environmental parameters were measured for each sample and tested in relationship to crustacean abundance by multivariate analysis CCA (canonical correspondence analysis). The results revealed significant differences in community structure related to substrate and the fine fraction of the bioseston."	NonUS	Ecology
"Neanderthals had complex land use patterns, adapting to diversified landscapes and climates. Over the past decade, considerable progress has been made in reconstructing the chronology, land use and subsistence patterns, and occupation types of sites in the Rhone Valley, southeast France. In this study, Neanderthal mobility at the site of Payre is investigated by combining information from lithic procurement analysis (chaine evolutive and chaine operatoire concepts) and strontium isotope analysis of teeth (childhood foraging area), from two units (F and G). Both units date to the transition from Marine Isotope Stage (MIS) 8 to MIS 7, and show similar environmental conditions, but represent contrasting occupation durations. Level Gb (unit G) represents a long-term year-round use, in contrast to short-term seasonal use of the cave in level Fb (unit F). For both levels, lithic material and food were generally collected from a local to semi-local region. However, in level Gb, lithic materials were mainly collected from colluviums and food collected in the valley, whereas in level Fb, lithic procurement focused primarily on alluvial deposits and food was collected from higher elevation plateaus. These procurement or exchange patterns might be related to flint availability, knapping advantages of alluvial flint or occupation duration. The site of Payre is located in a flint rich circulation corridor and the movement of groups or exchanges between groups were organized along a north-south axis on the plateaus or towards the east following the river. The ridges were widely used as they are rich in flint, whereas the Rhone Valley is not an important source of lithic raw materials. Compared to other western European Middle Palaeolithic sites, these results indicate that procurement strategies have a moderate link with occupation types and duration, and with lithic technology. The Sr isotope ratios broadly match the proposed foraging areas, with the Rhone Valley being predominantly used in unit G and the ridges and limestone plateaus in unit F. While lithic reconstructions and childhood foraging are not directly related this suggests that the three analysed Neanderthals spend their childhood in the same general area and supports the idea of mobile Neanderthals in the Rhone Valley and neighbouring higher elevation plateaus. The combination of reconstructing lithic raw material sources, provisioning strategies, and strontium isotope analyses provides new details on how Neanderthals at Payre practised land use and mobility in the Early Middle Palaeolithic."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding physiological responses of organisms to warming and ocean acidification is the first step towards predicting the potential population-and community-level ecological impacts of these stressors. Increasingly, physiological plasticity is being recognized as important for organisms to adapt to the changing microclimates. Here, we evaluate the importance of physiological plasticity for coping with ocean acidification and elevated temperature, and its variability among individuals, of the intertidal limpet Cellana toreuma from the same population in Xiamen. Limpets were collected from shaded mid-intertidal rock surfaces. They were acclimated under combinations of different pCO(2) concentrations (400 and 1000 ppm, corresponding to a pH of 8.1 and 7.8) and temperatures (20 and 24 degrees C) in a short-term period (7 days), with the control conditions (20 degrees C and 400 ppm) representing the average annual temperature and present-day pCO(2) level at the collection site. Heart rates (as a proxy for metabolic performance) and expression of genes encoding inducible and constitutive heat-shock proteins (hsp70 and hsc70) at different heat-shock temperatures (26, 30, 34, and 38 degrees C) were measured. Hsp70 and Hsc70 play important roles in protecting cells from heat stresses, but have different expression patterns, with Hsp70 significantly increased in expression during stress and Hsc70 constitutively expressed and only mildly induced during stress. Analysis of heart rate showed significantly higher temperature coefficients (Q(10) rates) for limpets at 20 degrees C than at 24 degrees C and post-acclimation thermal sensitivity of limpets at 400 ppm was lower than at 1000 ppm. Expression of hsp70 linearly increased with the increasing heat-shock temperatures, with the largest slope occurring in limpets acclimated under a future scenario (24 degrees C and 1000 ppm pCO(2)). These results suggested that limpets showed increased sensitivity and stress response under future conditions. Furthermore, the increased variation in physiological response under the future scenario indicated that some individuals have higher physiological plasticity to cope with these conditions. While short-term acclimation to reduced pH seawater decreases the ability of partial individuals against thermal stress, physiological plasticity and variability seem to be crucial in allowing some intertidal animals to survive in a rapidly changing environment."	NonUS	Ecology
"Most extinctions worldwide have occurred on islands, primarily due to interactions with exotic species, but rarely due to interactions among endemic species. This potential exists on two of the California Channel Islands, Santa Cruz and Santa Rosa, as endemic island spotted skunks (Spilogale gracilis amphiala) appear to have rapidly declined to rarity, possibly due to interference competition with endemic island foxes (Urocyon littoralis). Niche partitioning is expected in response to interference competition; hence, it is surprising that skunks and foxes show extensive overlap in macrohabitat use and circadian activity. However, the role of microhabitat associations and fine-scale temporal activity in facilitating coexistence of the two species has not been explored. We evaluated microhabitat associations of island spotted skunks and island foxes across both islands using data from live traps and wildlife cameras collected during 2015-2017, and we analyzed fine-scale temporal activity using camera data from 2016 and 2017. On both islands, skunks had a positive response to ground-level cover provided by rugged topography or woody vegetation such as shrubs or trees, whereas foxes had a weak or negative response, suggesting partitioning of these microhabitat characteristics. Additionally, on both islands the peak in timing of skunk activity offset the peak for foxes, which implies that skunks use fine-scale adjustments in activity to avoid foxes. Past grazing by exotic herbivores likely reduced habitat refuges for skunks; however, as vegetation on both islands recovers, regrowth of shrubs and trees may provide cover that will improve prospects for coexistence of island spotted skunks and island foxes."	USA	Ecology
"The rusty blackbird (Euphagus carolinus) is a species of conservation concern throughout its range because of rapid population decline. During winter, relatively large flocks are in suburban landscapes within the Georgia and South Carolina Piedmont Plateau of the southeastern United States. We studied radio-tagged blackbirds within flocks that moved daily among 3 distinct patch types: pecan (Carya illinoinensis) and small-seeded oak (Quercus spp.) groves, shallowly flooded forested wetlands, and residential areas landscaped with turf grass. The patch types used for foraging have varying availability of invertebrate and mast food. We investigated the relationship between daily observations of blackbird flocks and previous, current, and oncoming short-term weather. Suburban landscapes with the appropriate configuration of shallow wetland, residential lawns, and mast grove patches within a 153-415-ha area, the size of patch aggregations in this study, likely constitute high quality wintering areas for this species. Blackbird flocks were 1.6-1.8 times more likely to be observed foraging in wetlands with each 10 degrees C increase in current temperature, 1.5 times more likely in wetlands for every 5 days with no previous precipitation, and 3.2 times more likely in wetlands with every 10 extra hours of oncoming cold weather. Blackbirds were 4.1-4.5 times less likely to be observed foraging in forested wetlands with every 5-mm increase in current precipitation. Blackbirds were 2.2 times more likely to be observed in mast groves with every 5-mm of oncoming precipitation. Radio-tagged blackbirds used pecan groves for foraging in 2011 but not 2012, which was an overall warmer winter. Pecan groves may be a sporadically used component of a combination of foraging patches that are rarely near flooded forested wetlands or residential areas. Our results can be used to identify and conserve patch components used by rusty blackbird flocks during winter in suburban nature parks and greenways. (C) 2018 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Conservation
"The fishing cat's persistence in a 'semi-aquatic niche' suggests the evolution of a successful hunting strategy. We describe it for the first time by analysing 197 camera-trap video-clips, collected from a participatory-science initiative, within an ethogram framework(.) The cats spent similar to 52% of the time sitting and waiting for prey (fishes) to come nearer and took limited attempts to hunt (3.89%) in deeper waters (in which the upper portions of the cat's body were submerged), where its hunting success was found to be 42.86%. In shallow waters, it adopted a predominantly active mode of hunting (similar to 96%) to flush out prey."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Ecosystems around the world are at risk of critical transitions due to increasing anthropogenic pressures and climate change. Yet it is unclear where the risks are higher or where in the world ecosystems are more vulnerable. Here I measure resilience of primary productivity proxies for marine and terrestrial ecosystems globally. Up to 29% of global terrestrial ecosystem, and 24% marine ones, show symptoms of resilience loss. These symptoms are shown in all biomes, but Arctic tundra and boreal forest are the most affected, as well as the Indian Ocean and Eastern Pacific. Although the results are likely an underestimation, they enable the identification of risk areas as well as the potential synchrony of some transitions, helping prioritize areas for management interventions and conservation."	NonUS	Ecology
"Total organic carbon (TOC), total nitrogen (TN), delta C-13(org), delta N-15, and grain size were measured in two sediment cores from reserves adjacent to Dongshan Bay, China. The aims were to identify organic matter (OM) sources and to evaluate the combined impact of human activity and natural environmental processes over the last similar to 100 yr. In a coral reserve far from the estuary of Zhangjiang River, the average sediment accumulation rate (SAR) was 0.51 cm/yr from ca. 1839-2015, and the values of delta C-13(org) and C/N (atomic ratio of TOC to total N) ranged from -21.9 parts per thousand, to -23.7 parts per thousand, and from 5.7 to 8.1, respectively. In a mangrove forest reserve near the estuary, SAR averaged 0.49 cm/yr from ca. 1891-1985 and 2.41 cm/yr from ca. 1985-2015, and the delta C-13(org) and C/N values ranged from -22.7 parts per thousand, to -26.3 parts per thousand, and from 9.3 to 21.7, respectively. By combining a comparison plot of C/N and delta C-13(org) and a binary mixing model (based on delta C-13(org) and N-org/C-org, respectively), the major OM sources were assigned and their sedimentary contributions estimated. The sedimentary OM in the coral reserve had mainly an offshore marine authigenic signature with an average terrigenous contribution of <27%. In the mangrove forest reserve, the sedimentary OM was a mixture of terrestrial and marine sources, with an average terrigenous contribution of >56%. While input from the Zhangjiang River declined from the 1980s, urban development, deforestation and land reclamation contributed to an overall increase in the total mass accumulation rate (MAR). The coral was also severely damaged by the advent of poaching around the same time. These two factors collectively resulted in a rapid decrease in OM content and OC accumulation rate (CAR(org)) of the sediments until the establishment of the coral reserve in 1997. Changes in terrain and climate and the construction of water conservancy facilities were traditionally the primary factors responsible for changes in the sedimentary environment of the mangrove forest reserve. Since the 1980s, however, the expansion of the mangrove forest along with human activity has led to rapid increases in MAR and CAR(org) ; while, protective measures and a favorable climate have also promoted the growth of the mangrove forest. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"The release of neodymium (Nd) from particles along continental margins may contribute to losses in the global of Nd budget. The Changjiang River, which carries a heavy load of total suspended matter, empties into the East China Sea, and a strong particulate-seawater interaction process occurs along the salinity gradient. In the low-salinity region (S < 2.0), strong removal of dissolved rare earth elements (dREEs) occurs, but the Nd isotope values are uniform. At mid- and high-salinity (S=2.0-28.0 and S > 28.0) areas, the dREE concentrations increase slightly. An Nd isotope mass balance indicates that the release of particulate matter is a source of dREEs in the Changjiang estuary. The release rate of particulate Nd (Nd-spm) to the dissolved Nd pool in Changjiang estuary is higher than other estuaries, such as Amazon estuary. Composite all river data available from the previous studies indicate that 5800-9200 Mg per year of Nd is released to global marine waters from riverine particles. This estimated quantity is on the same order of magnitude as the calculated global Nd release flux based on the case study in the Amazon estuary. Our study indicates that to better constrain the global Nd budget, it is required to consider the release rate of Nd-spm in different rivers due to the significant difference among various rivers, but with very limited available data as of now."	NonUS	Ecology
"Shark populations have declined across the Caribbean region, with negative associations between shark abundance and human population density, open access to fishing, and proximity to large markets ('market gravity'). This decline is frequently attributed to fishing mortality, which increases in areas closer to humans and outside marine reserves. Although it is difficult to disentangle the effects of fishing mortality from other anthropogenic pressures on sharks, comparing shark abundance and diversity in jurisdictions with near zero fishing mortality versus prevalent shark fishing can demonstrate the role of overfishing. We used baited remote underwater video systems to compare shark abundance and diversity on coral reefs in 2 Caribbean nations with contrasting levels of shark exploitation: Belize (shark fishing) and The Bahamas (shark sanctuary). The abundance of targeted shark species and diversity were significantly higher in The Bahamas than in Belize. Caribbean reef and nurse shark abundance in Belize were best predicted by fishing-related factors (marine reserves, market gravity, their interaction). In The Bahamas, abiotic factors (depth, sea surface temperature) best predicted nurse shark abundance, while depth, market gravity, and its interaction with marine reserves predicted Caribbean reef shark abundance. These results indicate that fishing mortality reduces shark abundance and diversity in Belize, while lower fishing mortality in The Bahamas has greatly reduced but not eliminated human impacts on sharks. Future work should elucidate the indirect effects of humans to develop holistic shark conservation plans. We suggest minimizing shark fishing through multinational management plans to improve shark abundance and diversity, especially on reefs near densely populated areas."	USA	Fisheries
"Comparative studies indicate that several mammalian clades obey Gloger's rule in that they exhibit darker coloration in hwnid warm climates, although the mechanisms responsible for this association still are poorly understood. We surveyed external appearances of a single species, the feral pig (Sus scrofa), shot at 48 hunting lodges across North America and matched these to potential abiotic drivers, namely: relative humidity, temperature, precipitation, and ultraviolet (UV) radiation, and to biotic factors of habitat shade and predation pressure. We found that darker animals occupy locations of greater precipitation and warmer temperatures, as expected from Gloger's rule. The recent range expansion of S. scrofa implies selection for pelage coloration has occurred very rapidly. Separating pelage coloration into ewnelanin- and phaeomelanin-based pigmentation, we found more pronounced eumelanin-based pelage in areas of higher rainfall and temperatures and UV radiation, whereas pelage phaeomelanin is related to cool dry climates with lower LW radiation. This implies that humidity or UV protection but not crypsis are the mechanisms underlying Gloger's rule in this species and the factors driving eumelanin and phaeomelanin expression in mammalian pelage are different, reinforcing new interpretations of this venerable rule."	USA	Ecology
"In every liter of seawater there are between 10 and 100 billion life forms, mostly invisible, called marine plankton or marine microbiome, which form the largest and most dynamic ecosystem on our planet, at the heart of global ecological and economic processes. While physical and chemical parameters of planktonic ecosystems are fairly well measured and modeled at the planetary scale, biological data are still scarce due to the extreme cost and relative inflexibility of the classical vessels and instruments used to explore marine biodiversity. Here we introduce 'Plankton Planet', an initiative whose goal is to engage the curiosity and creativity of researchers, makers, and mariners to (i) co-develop a new generation of cost-effective (frugal) universal scientific instrumentation to measure the genetic and morphological diversity of marine microbiomes in context, (ii) organize their systematic deployment through coastal or open ocean communities of sea-users/farers, to generate uniform plankton data across global and long-term spatio-temporal scales, and (iii) setup tools to flow the data without embargo into public and explorable databases. As proof-of-concept, we show how 20 crews of sailors were able to sample plankton biomass from the world surface ocean in a single year, generating the first seatizen-based, planetary dataset of marine plankton biodiversity based on DNA barcodes. The quality of this dataset is comparable to that generated by Tara Oceans and is not biased by the multiplication of samplers. The data unveil significant genetic novelty and can be used to explore the taxonomic and ecological diversity of plankton at both regional and global scales. This pilot project paves the way for construction of a miniaturized, modular, evolvable, affordable and open-source citizen field-platform that will allow systematic assessment of the eco/morpho/genetic variation of aquatic ecosystems and microbiomes across the dimensions of the Earth system."	NonUS	Technology
"Simple Summary Calretinin (CALB2), which is a Ca2+-binding protein, plays a known pivotal role in the neural system in vertebrates. The role of CALB2 in mammalian gonads has been gradually recognized; however, little information on the function of CALB2 in fish gonads has been reported. Therefore, we firstly identified thecalb2 gene inParalichthys olivaceus(P. olivaceus), and then investigated its tissue distribution and localization in the gonads by real-time PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. TheP. olivaceus calb2 mRNA was relatively highly expressed in both the testis and ovary. The CALB2 protein is located in Leydig cells of the testis and ovarian germ epithelial cells inP. olivaceus. This study provides a basis for further explorations on the function and regulation mechanism ofcalb2 in fish gonads. Although its function in mammalian gonads has been gradually recognized, the expression and function of calretinin (CALB2)-a Ca2+-binding protein-in the testis and ovary of fish are still unclear. Here, we identified the cDNA sequences ofcalb2 inParalichthys olivaceus(P. olivaceus); analyzed its gene structure and phylogenetic and syntenic relationship by bioinformatics; and investigated its tissue distribution and localization in the gonads by real-time PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. TheP. olivaceuscalb2 gene has 11 exons and 10 introns, and the full-length cDNA is 1457 bp, including an open reading frame (ORF) of 816 bp encoding 271 amino acids. The CALB2 ofP. olivaceushas a higher homology withLates calcarifer(99%) compared with other species. The conserved synteny ofcalb2 neighboring gene loci was also detected in fish. Real-time PCR showed that the expression ofcalb2 mRNA is abundant not only in the brain, but also in the gonads, and exhibits a higher expression in the testis than in the ovary. Western blotting indicated that the CALB2 protein has a higher expression in the testis compared with the ovary. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the CALB2 protein appears in Leydig cells and the ovarian germ epithelium. These results reveal thatcalb2 plays an important role in the gonads ofP. olivaceus."	NonUS	Genetics
"We investigated the prevalence of coronaviruses in 44 bats from four families in northeastern Eswatini using high-throughput sequencing of fecal samples. We found evidence of coronaviruses in 18% of the bats. We recovered full or near-full-length genomes from two bat species: Chaerephon pumilus and Afronycteris nana, as well as additional coronavirus genome fragments from C. pumilus, Epomophorus wahlbergi, Mops condylurus, and Scotophilus dinganii. All bats from which we detected coronaviruses were captured leaving buildings or near human settlements, demonstrating the importance of continued surveillance of coronaviruses in bats to better understand the prevalence, diversity, and potential risks for spillover."	USA	Ecology
"Empirical evidence for increases in the reproductive potential (egg output per unit area) of coral reef fish in no-take marine reserves (NTMRs) is sparse. Here, we inferred the development of reproductive potential in two species of protogynous reef fishes, Chlorurus bleekeri (Labridae: Scarinae) and Cephalopholis argus (Epinephelidae), inside and outside of Philippine NTMRs. We estimated key reproductive parameters and applied these to species-specific density and length data from 17 NTMRs (durations of protection 0-11 years) and paired fished sites (controls) in a space-for-time substitution approach. For C. argus, we also used density and length data collected almost annually over 29 years from a NTMR and an adjacent control at Apo Island. The results suggest that C. bleekeri can develop 6.0 times greater reproductive potential in NTMRs than controls after 11 years of protection, equivalent to approximately 582,000 more eggs produced 500 m(-2) inside NTMRs. Enhancement of reproductive potential in C. argus was not evident after 11 years in the space-for-time substitution. At Apo Island NTMR, reproductive potential of C. argus increased approximately 6-fold over 29 years but NTMR/control ratios in reproductive potential decreased through time (from 3.2 to 2.4), probably due to spillover of C. argus from the NTMR to the control. C. argus was estimated to produce approximately 113,000 more eggs 500 m(-2) inside Apo Island NTMR at the 29th year of protection. Ratios of reproductive potential between NTMR and controls in C. bleekeri and C. argus were often greater than corresponding ratios in density or biomass. The study underscores the importance of species-specific reproductive life history traits that drive variation in the development of larval fish subsidies that originate from NTMRs."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Temperate grassland ecosystems are one of the most threatened ecosystems worldwide, and their loss endangers the grassland songbirds that rely upon them. This guild of birds has shown long-term declines in North America. At the same time, American bison (Bison bison) are becoming more common through reintroductions, and they may make significant modifications to grassland songbird habitat. To support conservation for this guild, we sought to understand the importance of bison grazing and ecosystem productivity to the species richness, occupancy, and abundance of this avian community. We conducted dependent double-observer bird counts, measured bison grazing intensity with patty counts, and used remote-sensed normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) data to measure ecosystem productivity. Our work took place in the National Bison Range near Moiese, Montana and in Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming. We found that species richness was positively correlated with patty counts and had a weak negative correlation with NDVI. Occupancy probability for six of seven grassland songbird species was positively correlated with patty counts, and for six of seven species was negatively correlated with NDVI. Abundance of vesper sparrow (Pooecetes graminueus) and western meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta) were positively correlated with patty counts, although for western meadowlark, this trend became less positive with increasing patty counts. Our work suggests that managers may want to encourage a broad range of bison grazing intensities to ensure that vegetative conditions related to bison grazing are present for all species."	USA	Conservation
"Population health and habitat quality are intimately related and seasonal changes in habitat quality are likely to be reflected in the body condition of animals. We studied seasonal variation of body condition in free ranging Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) in Udawalawe National Park, Sri Lanka based on visual scoring of individually identified elephants. We assessed the body condition of 218 adult females and 329 adult males from January 2008 to November 2012 and examined its relation to monthly rainfall and water level of the Udawalawe reservoir. Contrary to expectations, body condition of elephants was higher in the dry season, when primary productivity decreases due to lack of rainfall. However, the body condition showed both a seasonal and inter-annual negative co-relation with reservoir water level. A possible explanation for improved body condition in the dry season is the greater availability of fresh grass due to the emergence of reservoir bed grasslands with the drawdown of water. Our results underscore the importance of water management of large irrigation reservoirs in elephant conservation in Sri Lanka. (c) 2017 Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Saugetierkunde. Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Conservation
"The marine biodiversity of the Tricase coastal area (Ionian Sea, Italy) was investigated at the MARE Outpost (Avamposto MARE) between 2016 and 2017, with the help of citizen scientists and trained taxonomists. Among the most interesting groups encountered, heterobranch molluscs deserve a special mention. Altogether, 268 specimens were ascribed to this group and referred to 49 taxa. Notwithstanding the extensive literature on Mediterranean heterobranchs, two species proved to be new to the Italian coasts, the records of eight species represented their easternmost sightings in the Mediterranean Sea, and 13 taxa represented new records for the Ionian Sea. In addition, several feeding habits and phenological events were new to science. Although the European Union's Marine Strategy Framework Directive lists Biodiversity is maintained as the first descriptor in achieving Good Environmental Status, our results highlighted the presence of conspicuous gaps in the knowledge of species distribution, taxonomy and ecology of heterobranch molluscs, indicating the necessity of even small-scale species checklists to understand biodiversity changes in worldwide biota."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"As the aquaculture sector significantly expanded worldwide in the past decades, the concept of sustainable aquaculture has developed with the challenge of not only maximizing benefits but also minimizing the negative impacts on the environment assuring, at the same time, food security. In this framework, monitoring and improving the microbiological water quality and animal health are a central topic. In the present study, we evaluated the seawater microbiological quality in a mariculture system located in a Mediterranean coastal area (Northern Ionian Sea, Italy). We furnished, for the first time, a microbial inventory based on conventional culture-based methods, integrated with the 16S rRNA gene metabarcoding approach for vibrios identification and diversity analyses, and further implemented with microbial metabolic profiling data obtained from the Biolog EcoPlate system. Microbiological pollution indicators, vibrios diversity, and microbial metabolism were determined in two different times of the year (July and December). All microbial parameters measured in July were markedly increased compared to those measured in December. The presence of potentially pathogenic vibrios is discussed concerning the risk of fish disease and human infections. Thus, the microbial inventory here proposed might represent a new multiparametric approach for the suitable surveillance of the microbial quality in a mariculture system. Consequently, it could be useful for ensuring the safety of both the reared species and the consumers in the light of sustainable, eco-friendly aquaculture management."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Archaeological remains have highlighted the fact that the interglacial Marine Isotope Stage (MIS) 11 was a threshold from the perspective of hominin evolution in Europe. After the MIS 12 glaciation, considered one of the major climate-driven crises experienced by hominins, the archaeological records show an increasing number of occupations, evidence of new subsistence behaviors, and significant technical innovations. Here, we used statistical and geographic techniques to analyze the amphibian- and reptile-based paleoclimate and habitat reconstructions generated from a large data set of the Iberian Peninsula to (1) investigate if temperature, precipitation, and/or forest cover may have impacted the hominin occupation of the territory during the Early and Middle Pleistocene, (2) propose an 'Iberian' ecological model before and after the MIS 12/11 transition, and (3) evaluate, based on this model, the potential hominin occupation at a European scale. The results indicate the existence of climatic constraints on human settlement related to rainfall and environmental humidity. The Early Pleistocene and the first half of the Middle Pleistocene are dominated by the occupation of relatively humid wooded areas, whereas during the second part of the Middle Pleistocene, a broadening of the earlier ecological niche is clearly observed toward the occupation of more open arid areas. Based on the estimated occupational niche for hominins, a maximum potential distribution for early hominins is proposed in Europe before and after 426 ka. Results also indicate that parts of the Iberian Peninsula may not have been suitable for early hominin occupation. Our ecological model is consistent with the pattern of hominin occupation observed in northern and central Europe, where the earliest evidence reflects only pioneering populations merely extending their ranges in response to the expansion of their preferred habitats, as compared with a more sustained occupation by 400 ka. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding the diversity and community structure of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) is important for potentially optimizing their role in the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems. Land use can have profound effects on AMF abundance, productivity, and species composition, but such effects have been explored less in tropical landscapes where agriculture is often less intensive and wildlife conservation can be predominant. Here, we conducted a landscape-scale investigation to quantify the effects of land uses on the AMF diversity in the Greater Serengeti Ecosystem, Tanzania. Abundance, productivity, and diversity of the spores of AM fungal species were determined from field soils by morphological techniques. A total of 315 AM fungal spores belonging 9 species and four families were recorded. Land use had a significant (P < 0.05) effect on AM fungal spore density and biomass production of AM hyphae in in-growth mesh bags. The AM fungal spore density was statistically significant (P < 0.05) and positively correlated with soil N, organic carbon content and sand contents, but negatively correlated with increasing soil P and pH. After accounting for soil N, Organic carbon, P and pH, wildlife grazed areas had nearly double the spore densities compared to livestock grazed and crop agriculture areas. Likewise, wildlife grazed soils had a higher Shannon-Wiener diversity index (2.13 +/- 0.05) than either livestock grazed soils (1.76 +/- 0.10) or cultivated soils (1.59 +/- 0.09). AM fungal families exhibited significant differences in their abundance among land use types. While Glomeraceae had high abundance under all land uses, Gigasporaceae and Scutellosporaceae exhibited the highest abundance in wildlife grazed sites and Acaulosporaceae had high abundance in livestock-grazed and crop agriculture sites. Species composition within families was mostly similar across land uses, with the exception of Scutellospora sinuosum and Acaulospora denticulata, which exhibited much greater abundance in wildlife grazed sites than in livestock-grazed or crop agriculture sites. These results suggest that protected area grassland sites subject to wildlife grazing held a more abundant, diverse, and compositionally distinct AM fungal community than both livestock-grazed and crop agriculture sites, even after accounting for the influence of land use on soil N, Organic carbon, P and pH that affect AM fungi. From the perspective of sustainable production, it is very important to ascertain tillage practices and moderate grazing that can promote mycorrhizal diversity and, therefore, contribute to the long-term sustainability of agro-pastoral ecosystems under tropical conditions."	NonUS	Ecology
"The diverse large mammal communities found in Asian dry forests and savannas should segregate based on their diet selection. We examined the diet composition of sympatric ungulate species using metabarcoding to determine whether their diet was segregated and whether obvious attributes (i.e., body size, phylogeny, ecology) explained the structure. We collected fecal samples from eight ungulate species in Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary in the western forest complex of Thailand. The fecal collections occurred around a plot where all woody species were codified within a genetic barcode library, and this library was supplemented with samples from plant species known to be consumed by these species. Of 273 plant species tested, at least 93 were found within the fecal samples. Over half of the identified species were not previously known by experts as forage species. All ungulate species showed a strong consumption of grasses and forbs. For the three species with sufficient sample size (sambar, banteng, and guar), there were seasonal differences in their diet, with each showing increased occurrence of woody plants during the dry season. The pattern of forage consumption did not follow obvious paradigms of body size or taxonomy, with significant diet differences found in two similar-sized bovids (gaur, banteng), while the diet of sambar was more similar to bovids than to the other deer species. Asian ungulates differ in their forage consumption and metabarcoding should allow for testing of diet shifts in response to seasonal rains and fires which dominate the phenology of Asian dry forests and savannas."	USA	Ecology
"Previous studies reported methane gas (CH4) reservoirs in Saco do Mamangu ' a ria marine sediments (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil). Knowing that methane-related microbiomes are still poorly characterized in methane-rich tropical shallow sites, this study aimed to investigate microbial communities' diversity and spatial distribution in the sediments of Saco do Mamangu ' a ria. For this purpose, we collected sediment samples through 100 cm long gravity corer at three sites to perform community analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing, quantification of the methyl coenzyme M reductase-encoding gene (mcrA), and geochemical analysis, including CH4 stable isotope. Our results revealed a biogenic trend for CH4 isotopic signature and a high proportion of archaeal sequences assigned to the class Bathyarchaeia (phylum Crenarchaeota), with a spatial distribution throughout the channel's inner areas and the deepest strata. Operational taxonomic units (OTUs) classified within class Bathyarchaeia and Dehalococcoidia showed a positive correlation with CH4 concentrations, sediment depth, and oxidation-reduction potential. Due to their prevalence in the microbial community, we also performed a phylogenetic analysis to understand the Bathyarchaeia OTUs' affiliation with the Bathyarchaeia subgroups. The results showed a closer affiliation with Bathy-8 and Bathy-13 subgroups, previously proposed as indicators for marine and estuarine anoxic sediments, respectively. Our results emphasize the importance of the ecological role potentials of Bathyarchaeia subgroups in methane-rich tropical coastal ecosystems carbon cycling."	NonUS	Ecology
"Aquatic macrophytes are one of the four biological quality elements (BQE) used for assessing the ecological status of inland waters according to the EU Water Framework Directive (WFD 2000/60). With this article, we present the methodological approach for the implementation of a WFD compliant macrophyte index to the riverine systems of Greece. In addition to the definition and harmonization of the ecological quality class boundaries, the results from the pilot application of the index and the ecological classification of the monitored river reaches are also presented. Aquatic plants and environmental parameters were sampled from 93 river reaches between 2012 and 2015. A multivariate analysis with optimal scaling (MVAOS) was conducted to define the main stressor gradient and to identify the least disturbed sites and the reference conditions that are required for the derivation of the ecological quality classes. The Macrophyte Biological Index IBMR for Greek rivers (IBMRGR) was calculated for all the sites and the boundaries for the five quality classes were derived according to the methodology proposed by the Mediterranean Geographic Intercalibration Group (MedGIG). The main findings showed that the hydromorphological modifications were the main environmental stressors that correlated strongly with the IBMRGR, whereas physicochemical stressors were of lesser importance. More specifically, the first principal component explained 51% of the total variance of the data, representing a moderately strong gradient of hydromorphological stress, whereas the second component explained 22.5%, representing a weaker gradient of physicochemical stress. In addition, the ecological assessment showed that almost 60% of the sites failed the WFD target of the Good ecological quality class, which agrees with classification assessments based on other BQEs for Greece and many Mediterranean countries. Overall, this work provides a first assessment of the ecological classification of Greek rivers with the BQE of aquatic macrophytes with significant implications for ecological monitoring and decision making within the frame of the WFD implementation."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding the causes of population variation in host response to disease, and the mechanisms of persistence, can serve as vital information for species conservation. One such mechanism of population persistence that has gained support is the demographic process of compensatory recruitment. Host populations may persist by increasing recruitment to compensate for reduced survival due to infection, thus limiting the negative effects of the disease on population trajectories. However, high-elevation populations are inherently vulnerable to stochastic processes and may be limited in their ability to exhibit compensatory recruitment relative to lower elevation populations. We use long-term mark-recapture data from five populations of boreal toads Anaxyrus boreas boreas, across an elevational gradient in Colorado, before and after pathogen arrival to assess whether populations can persist with Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) via compensatory recruitment. Prior to pathogen arrival, we found a life-history trade-off between survival and recruitment across elevations, where high-elevation toads have high survival but lower recruitment and vice versa at lower elevations. Pathogen arrival had a strong negative effect on apparent annual survival and recruitment leading to negative population growth rates and dramatically reduced host abundances. The data did not support the occurrence of compensatory recruitment. Synthesis and applications. Our unique dataset indicates that demographic responses to pathogens may be environmentally (i.e. elevationally) context dependent and highlights the value of long-term monitoring. We recommend that practitioners verify that potential persistence mechanisms occur across multiple populations and relevant environmental gradients to counter any assumptions of the mechanism existing species-wide. Quantifying variation in population responses to disease will aid in understanding the bounds of such persistence mechanisms and identify particularly vulnerable populations where mechanisms are nonexistent."	USA	Conservation
"Increasing use of hair to survey carnivore distribution and identify carnivore scavengers or predators at prey kill sites requires methods for cost-efficient identification of predator hair. Although DNA analysis can be used to identify species-specific hairs, reliability depends on quality of hair, collection method, and environmental conditions, with cost that can exceed CAD$35/hair. In contrast, features of guard hairs including hair length, banding, and macro- and microscopic characteristics of the hair cuticle and medulla offer an alternative approach when hair quality is poor or funding is limited. Past keys focused on hair identification of prey species (e.g., ungulates, rodents) in predator scat analysis or were general because they contained all mammals in a region, thus complicating the focus on dichotomous keys for large carnivores. We used Random Forest (RF) to identify features that best classified known-origin guard hairs (n = 175) and used these characteristics to develop a dichotomous key for hair identification of the 7 major, large carnivore species common to the Rocky Mountains of Alberta, Canada. We found relative medulla width and pattern, cuticle-scale characteristics, and hair length provided the greatest probability of correctly distinguishing among hairs of different carnivore species. Correct classification of within sample hairs with RF based on Area Under the Curve (AUC) averaged 0.95 +/- 0.10, with coyote (Canis latrans) hairs having the lowest classification accuracy. Blind trials classifying 21 hairs using the dichotomous key yielded correct classifications of 88% +/- 7% to the family level and 60% +/- 10% to the species level. Hair preparation and identification by a trained technician was estimated at 30 +/- 15 min/hair and CAD$8/hair. Our carnivore hair key provides an alternative approach to DNA hair analysis when either funds are limited, or hair samples are not of sufficient quality to be successfully sequenced. (c) 2018 The Wildlife Society."	NonUS	Technology
"In the last few decades, hunters decreased in Italy, reshaping human-wildlife conflicts and constraining the budget of wildlife agencies. Socioeconomic dynamics connected with modernization reduced hunter recruitment in Northern America, by changing the value orientations of the younger generations, as well as social support towards hunting. Despite similar dynamics characterized Europe in the last few decades, no study addressed their effect over the decrease in hunting participation in Mediterranean European context. We modeled the effect of the percentage of urbanized soil, the average per capita income, the aging index of residents, the ratio between utilized agricultural area and the total agricultural area, the density of farmers per hectare of utilized agricultural area, the province, and the hunting district, over the observed variation in the proportion of hunters over the resident population between 2001 and 2011, at 258 municipalities in Tuscany, Central Italy. Both the proportion of urbanized surface and the average income at each municipality showed a nonlinear, negative, association with the variation in the proportion of hunters. Our findings agree with previous studies exploring the effect of the so-called forces of modernization over hunting decline in Northern America. Future studies could adopt socioeconomic variables reflecting modernization to model hunting variation at the Italian level. Policy makers can therefore use these estimates to better account for the numerical decrease of hunters in wildlife management policies, tailoring financing policies for wildlife agencies."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"In order to strengthen the advantages of resin matrix composites such as light weight, high strength, fatigue resistance, corrosion resistance and electrical insulation, glass fiber shows great application potential in the field of Marine engineering. Composite profiles were prepared by pull extrusion process, and the retention rate of mechanical properties was higher after 1000 h test in the neutral salt spray test chamber. The extruded composite profile was used as the frame of the solar module for the Marine environmental test. After a long time of marine environmental testing, the appearance of the component had no obvious defects. The strength retention rate of the composite profile was high, and the maximum power attenuation of the component was less than 5%. The results show that the composite profile can be used as a solar panel frame in marine environment."	NonUS	Technology
"Vibrio species play a crucial role in maintaining the carbon and nitrogen balance between the oceans and the land through their ability to employ chitin as a sole source of energy. This study describes the structural basis for the action of the GH20 beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (VhGlcNAcase) in chitin metabolism by Vibrio campbellii (formerly V. harveyi) strain ATCC BAA-1116. Crystal structures of wild-type VhGlcNAcase in the absence and presence of the sugar ligand, and of the unliganded D437A mutant, were determined. VhGlcNAcase contains three distinct domains: an N-terminal carbohydrate-binding domain linked to a small alpha+beta domain and a C-terminal (beta/alpha)(8) catalytic domain. The active site of VhGlcNAcase has a narrow, shallow pocket that is suitable for accommodating a small chitooligosaccharide. VhGlcNAcase is a monomeric enzyme of 74 kDa, but its crystal structures show two molecules of enzyme per asymmetric unit, in which Gln16 at the dimeric interface of the first molecule partially blocks the entrance to the active site of the neighboring molecule. The GlcNAc unit observed in subsite -1 makes exclusive hydrogen bonds to the conserved residues Arg274, Tyr530, Asp532 and Glu584, while Trp487, Trp546, Trp582 and Trp505 form a hydrophobic wall around the -1 GlcNAc. The catalytic mutants D437A/N and E438A/Q exhibited a drastic loss of GlcNAcase activity, confirming the catalytic role of the acidic pair (Asp437-Glu438)."	NonUS	Technology
"Cultivating more harmonious ways of interacting with top predators is a major challenge in sustainably managing and developing fisheries. In-depth, interdisciplinary case studies represent important tools for high-lighting emergent properties in complex human-predator relationships. In this study we integrate original social research with detailed secondary historic and natural-scientific information on a long-standing case of human-wildlife conflict: the relationship between fur seals and fisheries in Tasmania. Stakeholders were targeted and surveyed via anonymous questionnaire about their experiences and perceptions of seal-fishery interactions and seals in the ecosystem. The most frequently cited outcomes of interactions for both commercial and recreational fishers were damaged gear, lost catch, and damaged catch. Most fishers indicated that they believed population-level controlled culling or targeted removal of problem individuals would be the most effective strategies to manage and reduce interactions. In contrast, the general public and resource/environmental managers indicated strong preferences for non-lethal forms of management, with culling the lowest ranked strategy in terms of perceived effectiveness. Perceptions of ongoing rapid population increase evident in fishing sub-groups contrast with available seal population data. Such discrepancy suggests that reported increasing seal-fishery interactions may be more reflective of behavioural change, with seals becoming habituated to certain fishing activities. Areas of promise identified for future research and management focus on: technical mitigation to minimise direct interactions, building tolerance in fishing communities, and targeted ecological research to disentangle the effects of pinniped abundance, distribution (including seasonal population flux between breeding regions), and habituation on interactions. Documenting the contemporary status of this relationship is an integral step in managing such conflicts."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Connectivity between coral reefs is critical to ensure their resilience and persistence against disturbances. It is driven by ocean currents, which often have very complex patterns within reef systems. Only biophysical models that simulate both the fine-scale details of ocean currents and the life-history traits of larvae transported by these currents can help to estimate connectivity in large reef systems. Here we use the unstructured-mesh coastal ocean model SLIM that locally achieves a spatial resolution of similar to 100 m, 10 times finer than existing models, over the entire Florida Reef Tract (FRT). It allows us to simulate larval dispersal between the similar to 1,000 reefs composing the FRT. By using different connectivity measures and clustering methods, we have identified two major connectivity pathways, one originating on the westernmost end of the outer shelf and the other originating on the inner shelf, North of the Lower Keys. We introduce new connectivity indicators, based on the PageRank algorithm, to show that protection efforts should be focused on the most upstream reefs of each pathway, while reefs best suited for restoration are more evenly spread between the Lower and Upper Keys. We identify one particular reef, North of Vaca Key, that is a major stepping stone in the connectivity network. Our results are the first reef-scale connectivity estimates for the entire FRT. Such fine-scale information can provide knowledge-based decision support to allocate conservation and restoration resources optimally."	NonUS	Conservation
"The expansion of urban landscapes has both negative and positive effects on wildlife. Understanding how different species respond to urbanization is key to assessing how urban landscapes influence regional wildlife behavior and ecosystem structure. Gulls are often described as strong urban adapters, but few studies have explored species-specific differences in habitat use. Here, we use GPS tracking in conjunction with stable isotope analysis (SIA) to quantify the habitat use and trophic ecology of great black-backed gulls (Larus marinus) and herring gulls (L. argentatus) in an urbanized area. Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) of foraging locations revealed significant differences in the habitat use between species. Great black-backed gulls foraged primarily in marine habitats and herring gulls foraged primarily in specific urban habitats (e.g., landfills, dumpsters) and showed higher site fidelity in terms of the proportion of foraging sites revisited. Further, great black-backed gulls had significantly higher delta N-15 and delta C-13 than herring gulls, reflecting the use of marine, rather than urban, food sources. This study highlights the variability in urban habitat utilization among closely related species, assesses stable isotope signatures of urban diets in wild birds, and discusses ecological implications of the relative contribution of urban and marine foraging."	USA	Ecology
"Marine litter pollution is a global environmental problem, found in all oceans and with substantial impacts on marine ecosystem services, maritime economic activity, public health, and aesthetics. To develop socially acceptable policies to foster behavioral change, it is necessary to understand the perceptions of practical measures to curb marine litter pollution by key stakeholders. We employ a Best-Worst Scaling approach to investigate preferences of fishers for implementing abandoned, lost, and otherwise discarded fishing gear (ALDFG) control measures to curb marine litter pollution in Vietnam. The results show that the perceived effectiveness of proposed measures to address ALDFG varies among fishers and between fisheries, implying a one size fits all approach would not work in this context, though there are areas of agreement. While fishers perceive 'awareness raising' and 'onshore collection' to be most effective measures, the use of 'biodegradable gear' and 'gear-lost reports' are perceived least effective in combating ALDFG. Our results suggest the improvements of waste facilities in ports, on small islands, and in coastal areas to encourage fishers to dispose of their unwanted gear appropriately, coupled with targeted awareness-raising programs to increase fishers' awareness of ALDFG impacts on marine environment."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Sea cucumbers exposed to stressful circumstances eviscerate most internal organs, and then regenerate them rapidly under favorable environments. Reversible protein phosphorylation and acetylation are major modifications regulating protein function. Herein, for the first time, we perform quantitative phospho- and acetyl proteomics analyses of intestine regeneration in a sea cucumber species Apostichopus japonicus. We identified 1,862 phosphorylation sites in 1,169 proteins, and 712 acetylation sites in 470 proteins. Of the 147 and 251 proteins differentially modified by phosphorylation and acetylation, respectively, most were related to cytoskeleton biogenesis, protein synthesis and modification, signal recognition and transduction, energy production and conversion, or substance transport and metabolism. Phosphorylation appears to play a more important role in signal recognition and transduction than acetylation, while acetylation is of greater importance in posttranslational modification, protein turnover, chaperones; energy production and conversion; amino acid and lipid transport and metabolism. These results expanded our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of posttranslational modifications in intestine regeneration of sea cucumbers after evisceration."	NonUS	Genetics
"Among threats to marine species, overfishing has often been highlighted as a major contributor to population declines and yet fishing effort has increased globally over the past decade. This paper discusses the decadal reassessment of groupers (family Epinephelidae), an important and valuable group of marine fishes subjected to high market demand and intense fishing effort, based on IUCN criteria. Allowing for uncertainty in the status of species listed as Data Deficient, 19 species (11.4%) are currently assigned to a threatened category. This first reassessment for a large marine fish taxon permits an evaluation of changes following the original assessments, provides a profile of the current conservation condition of species, identifies the challenges of assessing conservation status, and highlights current and emerging threats. Measures needed to reduce threats and lessons learned from conservation efforts are highlighted. Present threats include intensifying fishing effort in the face of absent or insufficient fishery management or monitoring, growing pressures from international trade, and an inadequate coverage in effectively managed, sized, or located protected areas. Emerging threats involve expansion of fishing effort into deeper waters and more remote locations, shifts to previously non-targeted species, increases in the capture, marketing and use of juveniles, growing demands for domestic and international trade, and, potentially, climate change. Those species most threatened are larger-bodied, longer-lived groupers, most of which reproduce in spawning aggregations."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Predator-prey dynamics are a fundamental part of ecology, but directly studying interactions has proven difficult. The proliferation of camera trapping has enabled the collection of large datasets on wildlife, but researchers face hurdles inferring interactions from observational data. Recent advances in hierarchical co-abundance models infer species interactions while accounting for two species' detection probabilities, shared responses to environmental covariates, and propagate uncertainty throughout the entire modeling process. However, current approaches remain unsuitable for interacting species whose natural densities differ by an order of magnitude and have contrasting detection probabilities, such as predator-prey interactions, which introduce zero inflation and overdispersion in count histories. Here, we developed a Bayesian hierarchical N-mixture co-abundance model that is suitable for inferring predator-prey interactions. We accounted for excessive zeros in count histories using an informed zero-inflated Poisson distribution in the abundance formula and accounted for overdispersion in count histories by including a random effect per sampling unit and sampling occasion in the detection probability formula. We demonstrate that models with these modifications outperform alternative approaches, improve model goodness-of-fit, and overcome parameter convergence failures. We highlight its utility using 20 camera trapping datasets from 10 tropical forest landscapes in Southeast Asia and estimate four predator-prey relationships between tigers, clouded leopards, and muntjac and sambar deer. Tigers had a negative effect on muntjac abundance, providing support for top-down regulation, while clouded leopards had a positive effect on muntjac and sambar deer, likely driven by shared responses to unmodelled covariates like hunting. This Bayesian co-abundance modeling approach to quantify predator-prey relationships is widely applicable across species, ecosystems, and sampling approaches and may be useful in forecasting cascading impacts following widespread predator declines. Taken together, this approach facilitates a nuanced and mechanistic understanding of food-web ecology."	NonUS	Ecology
"Silver (Ag) is a non-essential metal known to bioaccumulate in aquatic organisms. We determined Ag concentrations in five false killer whales stranded in South America. Silver concentrations (in dry weight basis) range as 6.62-10.78 mu g g(-1) in liver, 0.008-7.41 mu g g(-1) in spleen, 0.004-5.71 pg g(-1) in testis, 0.757-1.69 mu g g(-1) in kidney, 0.011-0.078 mu g g(-1) in lung and < 0.01-0.038 mu g g(-1) in muscle, whereas in the single samples of uterus and ovary were 0.051 and 0.023 mu g g(-1); respectively. Overall, Ag concentration in liver and kidney exceeded the cetacean toxic thresholds, proposed as unhealthy concentrations and critically dangerous in liver and kidney. These results warrant further eco-toxicological studies, to examine biological effects of elevated silver levels for individuals and to assess the species' conservation status with respect to marine pollution."	NonUS	Ecology
"Marine protected areas (MPAs) have emerged as a valuable tool in biodiversity conservation and fisheries management. However, the effective use of MPAs depends upon the successful integration of social and ecological information. We investigated relationships between the social system structure of coastal communities alongside biological data describing the status and trends in fish communities around Yap, Micronesia. Traditional marine tenure made Yap an ideal place to investigate the underlying principles of social-ecological systems, as communities own and manage spatially-defined coastal resources. Analysis of social survey data revealed three social regimes, which were linked to corresponding gradients of ecological outcomes. Communities with decentralized decision-making and a preference for communal forms of fishing had the greatest ecological outcomes, while communities lacking any form of leadership were linked to poor ecological outcomes. Interestingly, communities with strong top-down leadership were shown to have variable ecological outcomes, depending on the presence of key groups or individuals. We last investigated whether social perception could successfully predict the status of fish assemblages within non-managed reefs. Several biological metrics of fish assemblages within non-managed areas were significantly predicted by a gradient of human access, suggesting social perception could not predict the growing human footprint over the study period. These findings highlight the potentially overlooked role that community-oriented decision-making structures and fishing methods could play in successful conservation efforts, and the limitations of perception data. Policies that promote communal marine resource use offer a novel approach to improve fisheries management and promote social-ecological resilience."	USA	Conservation
"Posidonia oceanica is an endemic Mediterranean seagrass that ranks among the most important and valuable species, with regard to both its ecological role and the services it provides. Despite this species is one of the main targets of conservation actions, the current regression trend of P. oceanica is alarming, underlying the urgent need for reliable methods capable of assessing meadows vulnerability. To address this need, we developed a Habitat Suitability Model (HSM) aimed at assessing the vulnerability of P. oceanica meadows in the Italian marine coastal waters using the Random Forest (RF) Machine Learning technique. Building on the current knowledge on both spatial distribution and condition of meadows in the Italian seas, the RF was used as a classifier aimed at modeling the habitat suitability for P. oceanica, rather than for predictive purposes. The assessment of the potentially most vulnerable P. oceanica meadows at increasing risk of regression was performed through the analysis of the RF output. The HSM showed a good level of accuracy, i.e. Cohen's K = 0.685. The proposed approach provided valuable information regarding the vulnerability of P. oceanica meadows over the Italian marine coastal waters. In addition, an evaluation of the relative importance of the predictors was carried out using the permutation measure. The developed HSM can support conservation and monitoring programs regarding this species playing a crucial role in the marine ecosystems of the Mediterranean Sea."	NonUS	Technology
"Over the past decade, Peter Frappell, aka Frapps, has been an integral part of an international group studying birds that migrate or reside at altitude. This research has taken the extended group from Terkhiin Tsagaan Lake on the Mongolian plateau to Chilika Lake in eastern India, Koonthankulum bird sanctuary in southern India, Lake Qinghai in Chinese Tibet, Summer Lake Wildlife and Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon, and San Pedro a Marca, Vichaycocha and Lake Titicaca National Reserve in Peru. It has been a productive project producing over 30 manuscripts, 15 of which were based on research in the field. What has not been published are the stories behind the research and the critical lessons learned along the way. Some of these are chronicled here."	NonUS	Ecology
"A methodology is described for control of vertically profiling floats that uses an imperfect predictive model of ocean currents. In this approach, the floats have control only over their depth. This control authority is combined with an imperfect model of ocean currents to attempt to force the floats to maintain position. First, the impact of model accuracy on the ability to station keep (e.g. maintain X-Y position) using simulated planning and nature (ground-truth in simulation) models is studied. In this study, the impact of batch versus continuous planning is examined. In batch planning the float depth plan is derived for an extended period of time and then executed open loop. In continuous planning the depth plan is updated with the actual position and the remainder of the plan re-planned based on the new information. In these simulation results are shown that (a) active control can significantly improve station keeping with even an imperfect predictive model and (b) continuous planning can mitigate the impact of model inaccuracy. Second, the effect of using heuristic path completion estimators in search are studied. In general, using a more conservative estimator increases search quality but commensurately increases the amount of search and therefore computation time. Third are presented results from an April 2015 deployment in the Pacific Ocean that show that even with an imperfect model of ocean currents, model-based control can enhance float control performance. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier B.V."	USA	Technology
"Sustainable tourism involves increasingly attracting visitors while preserving the natural capital of a destination for future generations. To foster tourism while protecting sensitive environments, coastal managers, tourism operators, and other decision-makers benefit from information about where tourists go and which aspects of the natural and built environment draw them to particular locations. Yet this information is often lacking at management-relevant scales and in remote places. We tested and applied methods using social media as data on tourism in The Bahamas. We found that visitation, as measured by numbers of geolocated photographs, is well correlated with counts of visitors from entrance surveys for islands and parks. Using this relationship, we predicted nearly 4 K visitor-days to the network of Bahamian marine protected areas annually, with visitation varying more than 20-fold between the most and least visited parks. Next, to understand spatial patterns of tourism for sustainable development, we combined social media-based data with entrance surveys for Andros, the largest island in The Bahamas. We estimated that tourists spend 125 K visitor-nights and more than US$45 M in the most highly visited district, five times that of the least visited district. We also found that tourists prefer accessible, natural landscapes-such as reefs near lodges-that can be reached by air, roads, and ferries. The results of our study are being used to inform development and conservation decisions, such as where to invest in infrastructure for visitor access and accommodation, siting new marine protected areas, and management of established protected areas. Our work provides an important example of how to leverage social media as a source of data to inform strategies that encourage tourism, while conserving the environments that draw visitors to a destination in the first place."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"The practice of keeping birds is a long-held tradition in South-east Asia, including in Singapore. Beyond market surveys that have documented Singapore's sizeable bird market, there is a compelling need to understand the underlying drivers of demand for songbirds, and how these are influenced by social factors. We conducted semi-structured surveys of 114 songbird owners in Singapore, so as to determine their behaviour, demography, and preferences for owning songbirds and mapped Singapore's songbird trade network. Forty-four percent of respondents reported to not prefer either wild-caught or captive-bred birds and another 37% preferred captive-bred birds. Over half (51%) did not think that there were any differences in the singing capabilities of the songbird from either source. Influence from family members and close contacts were cited as the most influential motivational factor for bird-keeping. The majority of respondents were middle-aged (77% aged 40 and above), and two-thirds (67%) were of Chinese ethnicity. Purchasing power and socio-economic status were not deemed to be strong considerations for owning songbirds. Neither was songbird ownership regarded as a status symbol, in contrast to parrot ownership in Singapore. Instead, social factors played influential roles in the songbird community, shaping the way owners gather, interact, and trade at bird shops and bird cage hanging spots. This study offers novel insights into the motivations underlying songbird ownership and its complex community linkages. We advocate for conservation interventions to target specific demographic groups that are embedded and influenced by communities so as to promote sustainable trade in songbirds."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Understanding migratory behavior, mortality, and physiology is essential for conservation of many species, particularly anadromous fish. In this study, freshwater and marine migrations of the endangered salmonid North Sea houting (Coregonus oxyrinchus (Linnaeus, 1758)) were investigated using telemetry. Furthermore, physiological samples were collected from North Sea houting and from resident and anadromous populations of the closely related European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus (Linnaeus, 1758)) to compare hypo-osmotic tolerances. On average, North Sea houting spent 193 days at sea where the mortality was 36%. Most fish returned from sea in the autumn, and river entry correlated inversely with river temperature and positively with discharge. Fish spent an average of 49 days in the estuarine area. Artificial lakes negatively affected migration speeds. Migration speeds did not differ consistently between individuals (i.e., not a repeatable trait) but correlated positively with water temperature. Fish arrived at spawning areas in November. In the post-spawning state, Na+/K+-ATPase activities were elevated in North Sea houting and anadromous whitefish compared with resident whitefish, while osmolality was elevated only in North Sea houting. Our study provides important information for conservation planning related to the Habitat Directive of the European Union that lists the North Sea houting as critically endangered."	NonUS	Conservation
"The effects of decomposing shark tissue on catches of benthic longlines targeting various carcharhinids were assessed to inform possible use as a semiochemical shark deterrent. During 15 nights fishing, four benthic longlines (each comprising 18-30 hooks baited with mullet, Mugil cephalus) were deployed to 12-56 m overnight for 12-21 h off eastern Australia. Two of the longlines had 2.0-3.0 kg of decomposing shark tissue placed into porous cylindrical canisters (520 x 105 mm polyvinyl chloride) secured to the mainline mostly between every three hooks (15-20 m apart), while the other two longlines had empty canisters. In total, 150 fish were caught, comprising 14 species of elasmobranchs and especially tiger sharks, Galeocerdo cuvier (31% of total). The decomposing shark tissue in the canisters had no effects on catches of any species or groups, with variability among most attributed to fishing depth (positive relationship) and also soak time (negative) for carcharhinids and G. cuvier. Irrespective of the contents of the canisters and the lack of any semiochemical effects, there was some evidence of fewer sharks caught on adjacent hooks as moonlight increased, and possibly because of a visual response. There was no depredation of any decomposing shark tissue in the canisters, but three juvenile hooked sharks were substantially depredated, and presumably by larger individuals. Most (similar to 70%) of the remaining hooked sharks survived. While this study showed no repelling effects of decomposing shark tissue, the conclusions are restricted to the experimental conditions, including the source of tissue and the distance between hooks, which might be used as upper limit in any future work assessing for effects. Crown Copyright (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Climate change-related effects threaten species worldwide; within-species populations may react differently to climate-induced stress due to local adaptation and partial isolation, particularly in areas with steep environmental gradients. Populations of the marine foundation seaweed Fucus vesiculosus are established over a steep salinity gradient at the entrance of the brackish water in the Baltic Sea (NE Atlantic). First, we analyzed the genetic differentiation among populations using thousands of genetic markers. Second, we measured the physiological tolerance to reduced salinity, a predicted effect of climate change in the study area, by measuring growth, phlorotannin (defense compounds) content, and maximum photochemical yield in tissue of the same individuals exposed to both current and projected future salinities. Our results show that despite short geographic distances (max 100 km), most populations were genetically well separated. Furthermore, populations responded very differently to a salinity decrease of four practical salinity units (psu) corresponding to projected future salinity. At the high salinity end of the gradient, some populations maintained growth at the cost of reduced phlorotannin production. However, at the low salinity end, mortality increased and growth was strongly reduced in one population, while a second population from similar salinity instead maintained growth and phlorotannin production. Among genetic markers that appeared as outliers (showing more genetic differentiation than the majority of loci), we found that four were associated with genes that were potential candidates for being under selection. One of these, a calcium-binding protein gene, also showed a significant genotype-phenotype relationship in the population where this genetic marker was variable. We concluded that local selection pressure, genetic affinity, and possibly also population history could explain the very different responses to reduced salinity among these populations, despite being from the same geographic area. Our results highlight the importance of local perspective in the management of species."	NonUS	Genetics
"The overuse of man-made antibiotics has facilitated the global propagation of antibiotic resistance genes in animals, across natural and anthropogenically disturbed environments. Although antibiotic treatment is the most well-studied route by which resistance genes can develop and spread within host-associated microbiota, resistomes also can be acquired or enriched via more indirect routes, such as via transmission between hosts or via contact with antibiotic-contaminated matter within the environment. Relatively little is known about the impacts of anthropogenic disturbance on reservoirs of resistance genes in wildlife and their environments. We therefore tested for (a) antibiotic resistance genes in primate hosts experiencing different severities and types of anthropogenic disturbance (i.e., non-wildlife animal presence, human presence, direct human contact, and antibiotic treatment), and (b) covariation between host-associated and environmental resistomes. We used shotgun metagenomic sequencing of ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) gut resistomes and associated soil resistomes sampled from up to 10 sites: seven in the wilderness of Madagascar and three in captivity in Madagascar or the United States. We found that, compared to wild lemurs, captive lemurs harbored greater abundances of resistance genes, but not necessarily more diverse resistomes. Abundances of resistance genes were positively correlated with our assessments of anthropogenic disturbance, a pattern that was robust across all ten lemur populations. The composition of lemur resistomes was site-specific and the types of resistance genes reflected antibiotic usage in the country of origin, such as vancomycin use in Madagascar. We found support for multiple routes of ARG enrichment (e.g., via human contact, antibiotic treatment, and environmental acquisition) that differed across lemur populations, but could result in similar degrees of enrichment. Soil resistomes varied across natural habitats in Madagascar and, at sites with greater anthropogenic disturbance, lemurs and soil resistomes covaried. As one of the broadest, single-species investigations of wildlife resistomes to date, we show that the transmission and enrichment of antibiotic resistance genes varies across environments, thereby adding to the mounting evidence that the resistance crisis extends outside of traditional clinical settings."	USA	Genetics
"This paper applies and extends the concept of Littoral Active Zone (LAZ) of sandy beaches as a relevant dimension to observe and manage this socio ecological system. The LAZ is a dynamic zone where exchanges across land and sea occur, and this concept was initially proposed on a geomorphological background only. However, to achieve full relevance and timely address management choices tied to the functioning of soft sediment shores, it became appropriate to extend its consideration to both the ecological and social templates coexisting on the same physical unit. Current paradigms around the concept of LAZ were used as a background to organize information from different disciplines and extend the concept to different soft sediment shores (mostly sandy beaches and salt marshes), towards a global, integrated relevance of the concept. As a test for this approach, we 1) struabctured information on the biophysical and social templates around the concept of LAZ, 2) extended it to salt marshes and 3) applied it to the case of the Breton coast for a practical test on information organization. Such an exercise highlighted key characteristics of the LAZ using a multidisciplinary approach, but also gaps to be filled when targeting research, perception, communication, sustainable use and management of the LAZ as a functional unit."	NonUS	Technology
"Kelp is one of the most important primary producers in the coastal oceans. When it matures or begins to decay, a substantial amount of detritus sinks and is degraded by microorganisms. However, the fate of these detritus after long-term microbial degradation, which is closely related to their ultimate carbon sequestration function, is not yet clear. Here, by studying the long-term (210-day) microbial degradation dynamics of kelp detritus, we reveal that the bioavailable components of kelp detritus (when kept in the dark) persisted for over four months. This left a considerable amount (in total, ca. 8.85%) of different forms of stable carbon that could function in long-term carbon sequestration. Among them, recalcitrant dissolved organic carbon (RDOC), recalcitrant particulate organic carbon, dissolved inorganic carbon, particulate inorganic carbon, and residual large particulate carbon accounted for 1.27%, 0.12%, 6.00%, 0.04%, and 1.41% of the initial kelp detrital carbon, respectively. The remaining organic carbon resisted further degradation due to the high content of humic-like substances, polycyclic aromatics, and highly aromatic compounds. Microbial community structure showed obvious successional characteristics during the long-term degradation process, driving the gradual transformation of the detritusderived organic carbon from labile to recalcitrant. Notably, microbial transformation of the bioavailable components of kelp detritus contributed 28.7% of the remaining RDOC molecular species. This study provides novel insights into the contribution of the microbial-mediated degradation of kelp detritus to different forms of carbon sequestration."	NonUS	Ecology
"Odontocete cetaceans are important predators in pelagic ecosystems; however, patterns of spatial and temporal distribution in the marine ecosystem off Peru remain unknown for many species. In this study, we modeled the potential habitats for dusky (Lagenorhynchus obscurus), long-beaked common (Delphinus capensis), bottlenose (Tursiops truncatus) and short-beaked common (Delphinus delphis) dolphins using maximum entropy models to two conditions: non-El Nino and El Nino 97-98. Dolphin sightings positions, fishing net hauls with potential prey data, and oceanographic variables from 24 cruises along the southeast Pacific coast of Peru (03 degrees 30'S-18 degrees 21'S) between 1997 and 2014 were used to model potential habitats of dolphins and their prey. Our modeling predicts that during non-El Nino conditions, the different dolphin species have a segregated distribution according to the physiography. Dusky and long-beaked common dolphins use mainly habitats over neritic zones segregating partially their spatial distribution while bottlenose and short-beaked common dolphins showed potential habitats mainly over the shelf-break and oceanic waters, respectively. During El Nino 97-98, this physiographic segregation was predicted to be maintained by the models although with northward retraction for bottlenose, long and short-beaked commons dolphins. Accordingly, dusky and long-beaked common dolphin potential habitat overlapped mainly with neritic potential prey species (Peruvian anchovy, Engraulis ringens; silverside, Odonthestes regia regia; red squat lobster, Pleuroncodes monodon; common squids, Doryteuthis gahi and mackerels). Bottlenose and short-beaked common dolphin habitats were predicted to overlap mainly with oceanic potential prey (mackerels; Panama lightfish, Vinciguerria lucetia; myctophids; Humboldt squids, Dosidicus gigas and euphausiids). Our results predict that dolphins use specific physiographic areas throughout the Peruvian marine ecosystem and these habitats did not drastically change during El Nino 97-98."	NonUS	Ecology
"Trimethylamine oxide (TMAO) is an organic osmolyte and universal protein stabilizer. Its role as a cytoprotectant is particularly important in ureosmotic elasmobranchs that accumulate high levels of urea, a macro molecular perturbant. Feeding is a key component in the turnover and maintenance of these nitrogenous compounds. However, previous studies examining TMAO regulation have been largely completed using starved individuals, when nitrogen balance is altered. Here, under fed conditions, we test the importance of dietary TMAO on long-term maintenance in three elasmobranch species with differing endogenous synthetic capacities. Smoothhounds (Mustelus canis), spiny dogfish (Squalus acanthias), and little skates (Leucoraja erinacea) exhibited species- and tissue-specific differences in their ability to conserve TMAO when fed a low TMAO diet for 56 days. Smoothhounds, a species with the capacity for endogenous production, exhibited a decrease in muscle TMAO. Spiny dogfish and little skates, species with no reported ability for synthesis, exhibited decreases in plasma and liver TMAO, respectively. Our findings are contrary to previous starvation studies demonstrating constant levels of TMAO for up to 56 days in elasmobranchs. Further, the previously reported synthetic capacity of these species did not correlate with their ability to conserve TMAO and cannot be used to predict a species reliance on dietary contributions for prolonged maintenance. It is possible that all species rely to a degree on absorption of TMAO from the diet or that alternate synthetic or regulatory pathways play a larger role than previously thought."	USA	Ecology
"Dispersal is one of the most fundamental components of ecology. Dispersal is also particularly relevant in an era of unprecedented habitat loss and climate change. We used a unique dataset to examine dispersal in gray ratsnakes (Pantherophis spiloides). Over a decade, we marked and released >1,500 hatchlings while monitoring the population of ratsnakes over a large area (approximate to 1,900 ha). We tested the hypotheses that dispersal should be (a) largely restricted to within the local population given previous genetic evidence of limited gene flow at greater distances and (b) male biased because male gray ratsnakes are under strong sexual selection. We recaptured 69 gray ratsnakes that had been marked as hatchlings after periods ranging from 1 day to 11 years. We found that dispersal distance increased with time, but was not significantly sex-biased, and that gray ratsnakes are extremely faithful to their communal hibernacula (only 2.8% of 497 juvenile and adult ratsnakes captured at least twice at communal hibernacula changed sites between years). Thus, dispersal is largely limited to the period from hatching until an individual joins a communal hibernaculum. Based on the spatial patterns of dispersal we observed, the most plausible explanation for dispersal is that hatchling ratsnakes disperse from their natal site to join a neighboring communal hibernaculum. Our study yielded the most reliable data on dispersal distances from birth by a snake to date."	NonUS	Ecology
"Identifying fish species from their bone remains is employed in identifying the prey of aquatic animals. However, diagnostic skeletal descriptions are scarce for fish species prey found in the food of piscivorous birds and other marine predators in New Zealand. The present article addresses this knowledge gap, providing a diagnostic description for the vertebral column and the skeleton of the caudal fin of the Australian anchovy Engraulis australis inhabiting coastal waters in and around the Hauraki Gulf, New Zealand. The vertebral column of E. australis is divided into four morphologically distinct regions more complicated than the classical division in abdominal and caudal parts only and the drawing of characteristic-looking vertebral profiles. Each of these four regions is associated with characteristic vertebral profiles. These morphological descriptive parameters express a morphotype that may be linked with the swimming mode of the Australian anchovy. The skeleton of the caudal fin of E. australis showed distinctive characteristics that will be useful as diagnostic criteria to identify specimens of the Australian anchovy and separate them from the skeletal elements of other fish species found in the food of gannets and other marine predators in future studies."	NonUS	Fisheries
"This study investigates the risk plastic debris ingestion poses to coastal marine taxa in the Balearic Islands in the western Mediterranean Sea. Here, we use species observations and environmental data to model habitat maps for 42 species of fish. For each species, we then match estimates of habitat suitability against the spatial distribution of plastic debris to quantify plastic exposure, which we further combine with species-wise ingestion rates to map the risk of plastic ingestion. The results indicate that the risk of plastic ingestion is particularly high in the northwest and south-east regions and the risks varied strongly between species, with those at higher trophic levels being the most vulnerable overall. Extending this work to other coastal regions within the Mediterranean Sea and beyond will allow managers and policymakers to target the most appropriate areas and types of interventions for mitigating plastic pollution on coastal diversity in the marine environment."	NonUS	Conservation
"Extreme climatic events can reshape the functional structure of ecological communities, potentially altering ecological interactions and ecosystem functioning. While these shifts have been widely documented, evidence of their persistence and potential flow-on effects on ecosystem structure following relaxation of extreme events remains limited. Here, we investigate changes in the functional trait structure - encompassing dimensions of resource use, thermal affinity, and body size - of herbivorous fishes in a temperate reef system that experienced an extreme marine heatwave (MHW) and subsequent return to cool conditions. We quantify how changes in the trait structure modified the nature and intensity of herbivory-related functions (macroalgae, turf, and sediment removal), and explored the potential flow-on effects on the recovery dynamics of macroalgal foundation species. The trait structure of the herbivorous fish assemblage shifted as a result of the MHW, from dominance of cool-water browsing species to increased evenness in the distribution of abundance among temperate and tropical guilds supporting novel herbivory roles (i.e. scraping, cropping, and sediment sucking). Despite the abundance of tropical herbivorous fishes and intensity of herbivory-related functions declined following a period of cooling after the MHW, the underlying trait structure displayed limited recovery. Concomitantly, algal assemblages displayed a lack of recovery of the formerly dominant foundational species, the kelp Ecklonia radiata, transitioning to an alternative state dominated by turf and Sargassum spp. Our study demonstrates a legacy effect of an extreme MHW and exemplified the value of monitoring phenotypic (trait mediated) changes in the nature of core ecosystem processes to predict and adapt to the future configurations of changing reef ecosystems."	NonUS	Ecology
"Bighead carp H. nobilis and silver carp Hypothalmichthys molitrix (collectively bigheaded carps, BHC) are invasive planktivorous fishes that threaten to enter the Laurentian Great Lakes and disrupt food webs. To assess the likelihood of BHC establishment and their likely effects on the food web of Saginaw Bay, Lake Huron, we developed a multi-species individual-based bioenergetics model that tracks individual bighead and silver carp, four key fish species, and seven prey biomass groups over 50 years. The model tracks the daily consumption, mortality and growth of all individuals and the biomass dynamics of interacting prey pools. We ran simulation scenarios to determine the likelihood of BHC establishment under initial introductions from 5 to 1 million yearling and older individuals, and assuming variable age-0 carp survival rates (high, intermediate, and low). We bounded the survival of age-0 BHC as recruitment continues to be one of the biggest unknowns. We also simulated the potential effects of an established population of 1 million bighead carp or silver carp assuming variation in age-0 survival. Results indicated that as few as 10 BHC could establish a population assuming high or intermediate age-0 survival, but at least 100,000 individuals were needed to establish a population assuming low age-0 survival. BHC had negative effects on plankton and planktivorous fish biomass, which increased with BHC density. However, piscivorous walleye Sander vitreus appeared to benefit from BHC establishment. The potential for BHC to establish and affect ecologically and economically important fish species in Saginaw Bay is a cause for concern."	USA	Fisheries
"To obtain a systematic knowledge on occurrence, partition, and risk of seven heavy metals (Cu, Pb, Zn, Cd, Cr, Hg, and As) in multi-media of marine ecosystem, sediments, seawater, and 20 species of organisms were collected from 62 sites in the eastern sea area of Shandong Peninsula, located in Yellow Sea (China), in four seasons of 2016. The concentrations were in the low-middle level compared with values from other sea areas all over the world. The highest concentrations of most of the seven elements were detected in sediments and seawater near the coastline. LogKd (distribution coefficient of sediment/water) ranged from 3.3 to 4.7. Concentrations of heavy metals in mollusc and/or crustacea were generally higher than that in fish (especially pelagic species), and while there was no significant relationships between pollutant concentrations and trophic levels. Cd and As were the most bio-accumulative elements, and As in mollusc may pose low non-carcinogenic risk We suggest that in the studied area heavy metals are mainly sourced from terrestrial input, preferentially retained by sediments, then accumulated in mollusc, and finally entered human body through mollusc consumption. Our study sounds an alarm for stricter control of metal emissions into this sea area."	NonUS	Ecology
"Safeguarding tropical forest biodiversity requires solutions for monitoring ecosystem structure over time. In the Amazon, logging and fire reduce forest carbon stocks and alter habitat, but the long-term consequences for wildlife remain unclear, especially for lesserknown taxa. Here, we combined multiday acoustic surveys, airborne lidar, and satellite time series covering logged and burned forests (n = 39) in the southern Brazilian Amazon to identify acoustic markers of forest degradation. Our findings contradict expectations from the Acoustic Niche Hypothesis that animal communities in more degraded habitats occupy fewer acoustic niches defined by time and frequency. Instead, we found that aboveground biomass was not a consistent proxy for acoustic biodiversity due to the divergent patterns of acoustic space occupancy between logged and burned forests. Ecosystem soundscapes highlighted a stark, and sustained reorganization in acoustic community assembly after multiple fires; animal communication networks were quieter, more homogenous, and less acoustically integrated in forests burned multiple times than in logged or once-burned forests. These findings demonstrate strong biodiversity cobenefits from protecting burned Amazon forests from recurrent fire. By contrast, soundscape changes after logging were subtle and more consistent with acoustic community recovery than reassembly. In both logged and burned forests, insects were the dominant acoustic markers of degradation, particularly during midday and nighttime hours, which are not typically sampled by traditional biodiversity field surveys. The acoustic fingerprints of degradation history were conserved across replicate recording locations, indicating that soundscapes may offer a robust, taxonomically inclusive solution for digitally tracking changes in acoustic community composition over time."	USA	Biodiversity
"Effective interventions are needed to solve conflicts between humans and predators over livestock killing, nuisance behavior, and attacks on pets and humans. Progress in quantification of evidence-based effectiveness and selection of the best interventions raises new questions, such as the existence of thresholds to identify truly effective interventions. Current classification of more and less effective interventions is subjective and statistically unjustified. This study describes a novel method to differentiate true and untrue effectiveness on a basis of false positive risk (FPR). I have collected 152 cases of applications of damage-reducing interventions from 102 scientific publications, 26 countries, 22 predator species, and 6 categories of interventions. The analysis has shown that the 95% confidence interval of the relative risk of predator-caused damage was 0.10-0.25 for true effectiveness (FPR < 0.05) and 0.35-0.56 for untrue effectiveness (FPR >= 0.05). This means that damage was reduced by 75-90% for truly effective interventions and by 44-65% for interventions of untrue effectiveness. Based on this, it was specified that truly effective interventions have the relative risk <= 0.25 (damage reduction >= 75%) and the effectiveness of interventions with the relative risk > 0.25 (damage reduction < 75%) is untrue. This threshold is statistically well-justified, stable, easy to remember, and practical to use in anti-predator interventions. More research is essential to know how this threshold holds true for other conservation interventions aiming to reduce negative outcomes (e.g., poaching rates) or increase positive outcomes (e.g., species richness)."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Pelagic seabirds are important components of many marine ecosystems. The most abundant species are medium/small sized petrels (< 1100 g), yet the sub-mesoscale (< 10 km) distribution, habitat use and foraging behaviour of this group are not well understood. Sooty shearwaters Ardenna grisea are among the world's most numerous pelagic seabirds. The majority inhabit the Pacific, where they have declined, partly due to bycatch and other anthropogenic impacts, but they are increasing in the Atlantic. To evaluate the sub-mesoscale habitat preferences (i.e. the disproportionality between habitat use and availability), diving behaviour and bycatch risk of Atlantic breeders, we tracked sooty shearwaters from the Falkland Islands during late incubation and early chick-rearing with GPS loggers (n = 20), geolocators (n = 10) and time-depth recorders (n = 10). These birds foraged exclusively in neritic and shelf-break waters, principally over the Burdwood Bank, similar to 350 km from their colony. Like New Zealand breeders, they dived mostly during daylight, especially at dawn and dusk, consistent with the exploitation of vertically migrating prey. However, Falkland birds made shorter foraging trips, shallower dives, and did not forage in oceanic waters. Their overlap with fisheries was low, and they foraged at shallower depths than those targeted by trawlers, the most frequent fishing vessels encountered, indicating that bycatch risk was low during late incubation/early chick-rearing. Although our results should be treated with caution, they indicate that Atlantic and Pacific sooty shearwaters may experience markedly differing pressures at sea. Comparative study between these populations, e.g. combining biologging and demography, is therefore warranted."	NonUS	Ecology
"Declining natural resources have led to a cultural renaissance across the Pacific that seeks to revive customary ridge-to-reef management approaches to protect freshwater and restore abundant coral reef fisheries. Effective ridge-to-reef management requires improved understanding of land-sea linkages and decision-support tools to simultaneously evaluate the effects of terrestrial and marine drivers on coral reefs, mediated by anthropogenic activities. Although a few applications have linked the effects of land cover to coral reefs, these are too coarse in resolution to inform watershed-scale management for Pacific Islands. To address this gap, we developed a novel linked land-sea modeling framework based on local data, which coupled groundwater and coral reef models at fine spatial resolution, to determine the effects of terrestrial drivers (groundwater and nutrients), mediated by human activities (land cover/use), and marine drivers (waves, geography, and habitat) on coral reefs. We applied this framework in two 'ridge-to-reef' systems (H (a) over bar 'ena and Ka (u) over bar ap (u) over bar lehu) subject to different natural disturbance regimes, located in the Hawaiian Archipelago. Our results indicated that coral reefs in Ka (u) over bar ap (u) over bar lehu are coral-dominated with many grazers and scrapers due to low rainfall and wave power. While coral reefs in H (a) over bar 'ena are dominated by crustose"	USA	Ecology
"Oceanic islands are natural laboratories for investigating species diversity and richness patterns. Changes in abiotic parameters may induce shifts in marine biota. Seaweeds are recognized as bioindicators, though those from remote tropical islands have been rarely studied. This study updates the diversity, richness and distribution of macroalgae from Trindade, a Brazilian volcanic island located 1140 km off the coast. Biotic data, obtained in a global database and in situ and compiled in a new records list, were associated with abiotic parameters. Conservation and ecological issues were discussed in the context of the observed greater richness, expansion of the distributional range and low endemism. A total of 141 species were identified, including 60 new records and 20 taxa of filamentous cyanobacteria. The greater richness, including potential cryptogenic species, may primarily be associated with past incomplete samplings, current new techniques and combined taxonomical methods, including molecular analysis for cryptic species. However, on the macroscale. this study provides information for the re-evaluation of aspects of endemism, connections and biogeographical distribution shifts of seaweed assemblages, considering environmental changes. In addition, this updated checklist establishes a baseline for further comparative studies, reinforcing the hypothesis that biogeographical isolation can be disrupted by meteorological and oceanographic shifts, altering dispersal patterns and resulting in higher ecosystems connectivity."	NonUS	Ecology
"Restoring and enhancing riparian vegetation on private and communal lands in Mexico is important for biodiversity conservation given the ecological significance of these areas and the scarcity of public protected areas. To enhance riparian vegetation and wildlife habitats and train local people in restoration techniques, we implemented restoration and outreach efforts on private and communal lands in the Sky Islands region of northwest Mexico. We fenced 475 ha of riparian zones from livestock, erected erosion-control structures, planted trees, and developed management agreements for cool-season grazing with landowners on 10 ranches across 3 sites in 2012-2013, then repaired fences and renegotiated agreements in 2017-2019. To foster evaluation, we used a before-after/control-impact design to measure attributes of vegetation structure and bird communities and compared baselines from 2012 with post-treatment estimates from 2019. As predicted, understory vegetation volume generally increased in treatments relative to controls (P = .09), especially when one treatment area with the lowest pre-treatment grazing impacts was censored (P = .01). Although canopy cover also increased, there was little differential change in treatments relative to controls (P > .23) due likely to longer time periods needed to realize responses. Densities of most focal bird populations varied across time periods in directions that typically matched observed changes in vegetation structure, but fewer species showed signs of differential positive change linked to treatments relative to controls. Densities of Yellow-breasted Chat, a key understory obligate and important focal species, increased in treatments relative to controls across sites, as did densities of Sinaloa Wren, which also use dense underbrush (P <= .05). Positive changes by other understory obligates (eg, Common Yellowthroat, Song Sparrow) were more local but sometimes of high magnitude (>8-fold) also suggesting positive impacts of treatments. Despite mixed results over a limited time period, these patterns suggest restoration efforts drove localized recovery of understory vegetation and associated bird populations, but benefits varied widely with environmental and social factors linked to management. Greater ecological benefits to riparian areas on private and communal lands in this region can be fostered by further incentivizing construction, maintenance, and proper use of restoration infrastructure, through education, and by building relationships based on trust and credibility with landowners."	USA	Biodiversity
"The sea bottom of the Skagerrak Strait (North Sea) contains munitions loaded with chemical warfare agents (CWA), mostly stored in shipwrecks scuttled intentionally after the end of the World War II. The munition shells inside the wrecks are in different states of deterioration and corrosion and their environmental risk potential is unknown. The Atlantic hagfish (Myxine glutinosa), a sediment-dwelling chordate, was used as a model organism to study the potential impact of dumped CWA on the local ecosystem by using biochemical biomarkers. The hagfish were collected in 2017 and 2018 at three sampling sites: in the immediate vicinity of a wreck with CWA in the Skagerrak, a few kilometres from the wreck, and a reference site 21 km from the wreck, considered to be free of CWA. Significant differences were observed between the wreck site and the reference sites in the activities of glutathione reductase, superoxide dismutase and glutathione S-transferase, while the activity levels of catalase and acetylcholinesterase were identical at all sites. The recorded differences demonstrated negative biological effects in the hagfish sampled close to the dumped chemical munitions. Due to the limited knowledge of hagfish biology and of the extent of CWA contamination in Skagerrak, the results presented here warrant more research to further elucidate the potential environmental risks of the scuttled wrecks. The usefulness of the species as a bioindicator organism is further discussed."	NonUS	Ecology
"Despite advances in tracking technologies, migration strategies remain poorly studied for many small-bodied passerines. Understanding variation within a migration strategy is important as variation impacts a population's resilience to environmental change. Timing, pathway, and stopovers vary based on intrinsic and extrinsic factors that impact individual migration decisions and capacity. Here, we studied drivers of variation in migration across a linked population of Golden-winged Warbler (Vermivora chrysoptera) using data from 37 light-level geolocators. We tested if behaviors vary in response to extrinsic factors: season, year, and proximity to a large geographic barrier-the Gulf of Mexico-and intrinsic factors: age and wing chord. Spring migration was nearly twice as fast as fall migration, with tightly correlated arrival and departure dates that were consistent among years, in contrast to no correlation or consistency in fall. This aligns with predictions for selection to minimize time spent migrating in spring and a relaxation of that pressure in fall. Twenty-nine birds staged for multiple days (mean: 7.5, SE: 0.6) in stopover habitats before crossing the Gulf of Mexico in spring, but 6 individuals overwintering closer to the Gulf coast forewent the stopover and completed migration 8 days faster.These findings suggest birds capable of crossing the Gulf without a stopover may experience a selective advantage by minimizing total migration time. After crossing the Gulf, individuals reduced travel speed and stopover duration, indicating constraints on movement differ before and after the barrier. Wing chord, but not age, positively predicted the total distance and duration of migration, and neither varied with timing, suggesting migration distance impacts morphology, but strategies do not vary with age. Ultimately, we find undescribed stopover locations south of the Gulf are important for most of the population, while high variation in migration behaviors suggest potential resilience to changing environmental conditions."	USA	Ecology
"Breeder investment in offspring reflects a trade-off between the benefits realized from current reproductive efforts and the benefits expected from future reproductive opportunities. When assisted by nonbreeding helpers that provide care for offspring, breeders may modify reproductive investments to minimize the costs of producing offspring, or in ways that maximize productivity and offspring survival. How helpers assist breeders can vary with different stages of reproduction, and how breeders alter investment in response to helpers may change depending on the stage of reproduction. We assessed how helpers contribute to reproduction and how breeders alter their investment in response to helper contributions in the cooperatively breeding brown-headed nuthatch (Sitta pusilla). We assessed helper contributions across three stages of reproduction: (1) nest excavation, (2) maternal egg production, and (3) nestling care and development at days 8-12 post-hatching, a period of rapid nestling growth. We also investigated how breeders responded to helper contributions and the relationship of helper behavior with breeders' reproductive success. Helpers contributed to offspring care but not nest excavation. Breeders assisted by helpers did not alter investments in nest excavation, offspring production, or offspring care. As a result, offspring raised by cooperative groups received more food and weighed more. Nests with helpers were more likely to fledge at least one offspring, even when considering variation in territory characteristics and breeder experience. Results indicate breeders likely benefit from the favorable breeding conditions helpers provided for current breeding efforts, which influenced the quality of offspring produced and their likelihood of fledging in this study. Significance statement Helpers may contribute to breeders' reproductive effort during many stages of reproduction. The presence of nonbreeding helpers should therefore influence the investments made by breeders during different stages of breeding. Investment decisions in one stage should furthermore influence later investment decisions. We demonstrated that helpers assisted breeders primarily during the offspring rearing stage in brown-headed nuthatches (Sitta pusilla), a facultative cooperative breeder. Breeders with helpers maintained their level of investments in offspring similar to the investments documented for breeders without helpers. As a result, chicks in nests with helpers received more food and were heavier, and adults with helpers were more likely to fledge at least one young. Our results suggest that the combined effects of parental and helper investment provided benefits for current broods with potentially important survival consequences for offspring."	USA	Ecology
"Microplastic is a contaminant of concern worldwide. Rivers are implicated as major pathways of microplastic transport to marine and lake ecosystems, and microplastic ingestion by freshwater biota is a risk associated with microplastic contamination, but there is little research on microplastic ecology within freshwater ecosystems. Microplastic uptake by fish is likely affected by environmental microplastic abundance and aspects of fish ecology, but these relationships have rarely been addressed. We measured the abundance and composition of microplastic in fish and surface waters from 3 major tributaries of Lake Michigan, USA. Microplastic was detected in fish and surface waters from all 3 sites, but there was no correlation between microplastic concentrations in fish and surface waters. Rather, there was a significant effect of functional feeding group on microplastic concentration in fish. Neogobius melanostomus (round goby, a zoobenthivore) had the highest concentration of gut microplastic (19 particles fish-1) compared to 10 other fish taxa measured, and had a positive linear relationship between body size and number of microplastic particles. Surface water microplastic concentrations were lowest in the most northern, forested watershed, and highest in the most southern, agriculturally dominated watershed. Results suggest microplastic pollution is common in river food webs and is connected to species feeding characteristics. Future research should focus on understanding the movement of microplastic from point-source and diffuse sources and into aquatic ecosystems, which will support pollution management efforts on inland waters."	USA	Ecology
"Heavy metals (HMs) contamination in soils and sediments (river/marine) and its impact on human health have induced a global consideration due to their bioaccumulation, non-biodegradability, toxicity and perseverance. The ecological risk assessment of HMs in soils and sediments have well studied in different countries, however there are very few studies in which ecological risk assessment of HMs has been compared in different countries. Therefore, the ecological risk of HMs (As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Hg, Mn, Ni, Pb and Zn) in soils and sediment was assessed using the studies published during 2020 and 2021. The available data was for 308 sediment sampling sites in 17 countries (Australia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, China, Colombia, Egypt, Greece, India, Iran, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Nigeria, Pakistan and Turkey) and for 799 soil sampling sites in 17 countries (Belgrade, Brazil, Chile, China, Egypt, India, Iran, Ireland, Mongolia, Morocco, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Southern Africa, Thailand and Turkey). Among all the sediment and soil sampling sites, majority of the sites were recorded from China and Ireland, respectively. The impact of HMs on the environment was studied using Potential Ecological Risk Evaluation (PERI). The results of PERI showed the highest concentration of Cd and Hg in soils and sediments among all the HMs. The highest PERI values of HMs in sediments and soils were recorded in India and Poland, respectively. Principal component analysis (PCA) of sediments and soils showed that India and Colombia represented one PC, whereas the remaining countries were included in the similar group. The sampling sites were categorised into different climates based on the Koppen climate classification and PCA showed that PC1 is mainly controlled by Cu, Zn and Ni for sediments, and Pb for soils along with other metals, irrespective of the climate. This review provides the latest information about the PERI data of HMs in soils and sediments, which will be useful for taking strategic management measures to control the contaminations of HMs in sediments and soils, thereby management of water and soils resources of a country and the world. (c) 2021 International Association for Gondwana Research. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"The potential for reinvasion of the United States by cattle fever ticks, Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) annulatus and Rhipicephalus microplus (Canestrini), which remain established in Mexico, threatens the viability of the domestic livestock industry because these ticks vector the causal agents (Babesia bovis and Babesia bigemina) of bovine babesiosis.The Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program safeguards the health of the national cattle herd preventing the reemergence of bovine babesiosis by keeping the United States free of cattle fever ticks. Here, the collection of free-living southern cattle tick, R. microplus, larvae by sweeping flannel flags over vegetation in the wildlife corridor of Cameron and Willacy Counties,TX, is reported. Finding R. microplus larvae on vegetation complements reports of infestations in wildlife hosts inhabiting the southern Texas coastal plains. Land uses and environmental conditions have changed since cattle fever ticks were eradicated from the United States by 1943. These changes complicate efforts by the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program to keep cattle in the United States free of the cattle fever tick disease vectors. Current scientific research on technologies that could be used for area-wide management of fever tick larvae in south Texas and how this could be applied to integrated eradication efforts are discussed."	USA	Fisheries
"Harmonizing biodiversity conservation and natural resource management often requires anticipating the potential impact that certain species can cause through their exploitation of specific resources. During the winter 2008/2009 we studied the feeding ecology of the Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis in SE Spain, in order to determine its dependence on different food sources available along an oceanic-continental gradient (open sea-freshwater bodies). Trophic niche was assessed using C and N stable isotopes, applying up-to date metrics and analytical tools. Isotopic signatures revealed high mobility patterns for cormorants, illustrating differences between roosting and feeding areas (spatially well separated). Cormorants roosting in open sea move to inland freshwater bodies, their trophic niche overlapping that of individuals settled there. Similarly, individuals settled around transitional waters (coastal lagoon), seem to divide the predation pressure between different food sources along the marine-continental gradient. Recently in Spain, the Great Cormorant has been devoid of legal protection due to its supposed impact on fisheries. Our methods provide a useful and non-invasive tool that can be used as a first step for assessing such interaction. On the basis of its dispersed feeding distribution and expected predation pressure the cormorant does not seem to represent a serious threat to recreational or commercial fisheries which would justify downgrading its protection. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The study of intestinal parasite communities is an important aspect of conservation biology, disease ecology, and wildlife health. Researchers can use the presence of select micro- and macroparasites as an indicator of host health. Only two studies have sampled intestinal parasites in free-rangingAotusmonkeys despite their wide geographic distribution in Central and South America. We therefore conducted a survey of gastrointestinal parasites using 50 fecal samples from seven free-ranging black-headed night monkey (Aotus nigriceps) groups at three field sites in the Peruvian Amazon. We calculated an index of habitat quality using Gentry transects and compared this with parasite communities. We recovered seven intestinal parasite taxa:Strongyloidessp.;Balantioidessp.;Trypanoxyurissp.;Entamoebasp.; and unidentified species of ascarid, strongylid, and trematode. Two of these taxa have previously been described in captiveAotus nigriceps(Balantioidessp. andStrongyloidessp.). Parasite richness ranged from zero to five taxa with a mean of 0.8 parasite taxa (+/- 1.0 SD) per fecal sample. Fifty-six percent of samples had at least one intestinal parasite taxon. We found all seven parasite taxa in the wet season but onlyStrongyloidessp. andTrypanoxyurissp. in the dry season.Balantioidessp. was positively associated with bothEntamoebasp. and an unidentified trematode, whileEntamoebasp. was positively associated with the unidentified ascarid (P< 0.05). Extrapolations support the likelihood of recovering additional intestinal parasite taxa with increased sampling effort. Neither group size nor basal area was significantly associated with parasite richness. These results highlight the need for continued surveillance ofAotusparasites both temporally and across heterogeneous landscapes because several of the parasite taxa we found are pathogenic in nonhuman primates and people."	USA	Ecology
"We describe the first known blood fluke from a marine mammal, the dugong, Dugong dugon (Sirenia: Dugongidae), which represents a new species of aporocotylid, Cardicola dhangali n. sp. (Digenea: Aporocotylidae). Eggs presumed to be of blood flukes have been previously reported from dugongs. This exciting discovery raises questions regarding evolution and host-switching in the Aporocotylidae, which prior to this study were only known to infect actinopterygian and chondrichthyan fishes. The new species has male and female genital pores opening on the right side of the body, with the male genital pore opening posterior to the entire reproductive system and the testis is extra-caecal. The uterus is highly convoluted, and the ovary is irregularly lobate. These features, together with the size and number of the tegumental spines per row, easily distinguish the new species from the most similar congeners Cardicola aurata Holzer et al., 2008, Cardicola chaetodontis Yamaguti, 1970, Cardicola currani Bullard and Overstreet, 2004, Cardicola forsteri Cribb et al., 2000, C. jiingurru Yong et al., 2016, and Cardicola palmeri Bullard and Overstreet, 2004, all of which infect actinopterygian fishes. Given that Cardicola is the most diverse and least host-specific of the marine aporoctoylid genera, it seems credible that a successful host-switch has occurred from an actinopterygian to D. dugon. Further sampling of sirenians and other marine mammals is warranted to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the evolutionary biology and biodiversity of the blood flukes (superfamily Schistosomatoidea Stiles and Hassall, 1898), but presents a substantial challenge with respect to their conservation status and large size."	NonUS	Conservation
"Artificial shelters show considerable promise as tools for studying imperiled hellbender salamanders. Their full utility has not yet been fully reached in practice, however, because during initial trials shelters often became blocked by sediment or dislodged during high stream discharge events. To determine whether these challenges could be overcome, we deployed 438 artificial shelters of two different designs across 10 stream reaches and three rivers in the upper Tennessee River Drainage in 2013-2018. We recorded shelter entrance availability during surveys, and recorded which shelters became dislodged following high discharge events. We evaluated two hypotheses: (a) shelter availability was driven by shelter placement and maintenance frequency and (b) shelter stability was driven by shelter design and shelter placement. Shelters were available 78.6% of the time on average (range = 0-100%), and 88.6% (388 of 438) of shelters were stable across all high discharge events. Shelter availability was maximized by clearing sediment from shelter entrances at least once every 40 days (more often in impaired reaches with high siltation) and after large storm events, situating the shelter within 1 m of >= 5 boulders, and orienting shelters such that their entrances do not face directly downstream. Shelter stability with our initial shelter design was 77.5% (169 of 218), but approached 100% (219 of 220) for heavier (similar to 40 kg vs. similar to 25 kg) shelters with recessed lids, and in reaches with abundant large boulders. Our findings demonstrate that with an improved design and careful placement, artificial shelters can serve as valuable tools for monitoring hellbenders in reaches with modest siltation."	USA	Technology
"After being subject to several decades of degradation, the bottomland hardwood (BLH) forests within the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley have undergone landscape-scale restoration regimes through conservation easement programs, such as the Wetland Reserve Program (WRP). Reforested easements offer an opportunity for landowners' adoption of forest management practices to fulfill the program's long-term conservation goals. Using the contingent valuation approach, we examine easement landowners' willingness to accept (WTA) to thin their forest subject to an easement to enhance forest health and wildlife habitat quality, and we test the effect of providing information about the benefits of thinning on WTA estimates. Results from an interval regression model suggest that ownership characteristics like years of ownership, involvement in non-timber activities like hiking and walking, and management characteristics like having past intention to thin, significantly decreased WTA while being an original easement grantor and ownership objectives like legacy increased WTA. The mean monetary compensation required to induce thinning adoption is $11.41 per ton of pulpwood. There is some evidence that the information intervention influences the WTA estimates downward, representing a potential policy instrument to achieve thinning objectives in the conservation easements efficiently."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"The Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus) is an endangered species endemic to Southeast Asia. Previous research have used maternally inherited, mitochondrial DNA genetic markers to investigate the population genetics of the species but not the biparentally inherited, nuclear genetic markers. However, the increasing pressure of habitat fragmentation and roadkill on the Malayan tapirs has called for an urgent need to assess the species' genetic status. In this study, the genetic diversity, population genetic structure, and sex-biased dispersal patterns of the tapir population in Penin-sular Malaysia were investigated using nine cross-species microsatellite markers, using sixty-seven tapir samples (39 wild, 11 captive-born, and 17 of unknown origin) provided by the wildlife department, zoo and conservation centre. Low genetic diversity of the wild population was found based on heterozygosity and allelic richness, and a cryptic pattern of population ge-netic structure was inferred. One (K = 3) to two (K = 4) genetic clusters in proximity to the south-western part of the major forest complexes seemed to be experiencing restricted gene flows compared to the other more widespread clusters or clines. Effective to census population size was estimated at 0.39-0.46. Sex-biased dispersal was not found in the current dataset. Even though these results may need cautious interpretation due to possible sampling bias, this study is the first study that investigated the genetic diversity distribution for the species using nuclear markers, and therefore will have conservation implications for the implementation of the Central Forest Spine Master Plan in Peninsular Malaysia to connect major forest complexes."	NonUS	Genetics
"Passive acoustic monitoring (PAM) is crucial to expanding the knowledge of beaked whales, including the northern bottlenose whale (Hyperoodon ampullatus) and Sowerby's beaked whale (Mesoplodon bidens). Existing descriptions of clicks produced by these species are limited by sample size, number of individuals recorded, and geographic scope. Data from multiple encounters in the western North Atlantic are used to provide a quantitative description of clicks produced by these species. Recordings from nine encounters with northern bottlenose whales in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland were analyzed (N = 2239 clicks). The click type described had a median peak frequency of 25.9 kHz (10th-90th percentile range: 22.9-29.3 kHz), and a median inter-click interval (ICI) of 402 ms (N = 1917, 10th-90th percentile range: 290-524 ms). Recordings from 18 Sowerby's beaked whale encounters from Nova Scotia were analyzed (N = 762 clicks). The click type described had a median peak frequency of 65.8 kHz (10th-90th percentile range: 61.5-76.5 kHz), and a median ICI of 237 ms (N = 677, 10th-90th percentile range: 130-315 ms). These results will contribute to the development of methods to detect and classify beaked whale clicks to the species level, improving the effectiveness of PAM and enhancing scientific understanding and conservation efforts for cryptic and at-risk cetaceans. (C) 2019 Acoustical Society of America."	NonUS	Technology
"Forest roads are the most important infrastructural facilities to exploit forests that are renewable natural resources. They are of great importance for all kinds of scientific and technical interventions to be made to the forest. Despite the benefits of forest roads, they have great potential to cause degradation and fragmentation of natural habitats. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of forest road technical features and intensity of use (traffic volume) on movements of mammals. From August 2017 to September 2017, a total of six forest roads and their surroundings were observed from fixed plots with wildlife camera traps. The study identified a total of twelve species of mammals. All together 589 individuals were counted from 461 wild animal images. Golden jackal, wild boar, and red fox are dominant species in the study area. The species composition of wild mammals was not strongly related to road characteristics. Drivers and wild animals use the same area but differ in time of use. It was also determined that wild animals adopted the road as a part of natural surroundings."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Larval behavior plays an important role in dispersal and settlement of marine organisms with cues from the environment often providing crucial guidance for facilitating these processes. The postlarvae, or pueruli, of the southern rock lobster, Jasus edwardsii (Hutton, 1875), are known to migrate over long distances from oceanic water and settle on coastal reefs using a combination of onshore transport and active nocturnal swimming. In laboratory experiments, we examined environmental cues used for this migration, specifically whether chemical cues in coastal vs oceanic seawater influenced their swimming orientation and their rate of development to juveniles. In total, 66% of pueruli actively swam toward coastal water rather than oceanic water (n = 41), indicating that they may use chemical cues in their settlement processes. Holding pueruli in coastal water vs artificial seawater did not expedite the development of pueruli to benthic juvenile stage, indicating that other cues could be important to the final settlement process. The present study suggests that chemical cues are being used in settlement processes during the onshore migration to settlement sites in this ecologically and economically important species."	NonUS	Ecology
"Carnivores are important drivers of ecological processes around the world. However, medium-large carnivores are often the focus of human-wildlife conflicts and are subject to control efforts. Determining the effectiveness of predator control efforts in reducing predator abundance or impact is critical to ensuring control is achieving its intended aims. This information is also vital to understanding any impacts of control efforts on the ecological functions of carnivores. In this study, we deployed camera traps on two properties in the southern rangelands of Western Australia to examine the effectiveness of repeated rounds of landscape-scale toxicant baiting in reducing dingo populations. Biannual baiting at each property was temporally offset from the other to provide a comparison of short-term changes in dingo activity and density over 16 months' monitoring. While there were significant differences in dingo density between properties, there was no significant differences between months categorised as 'month of baiting', 'month immediately post-baiting' or 'between baiting'. Further, there was no overall decline in dingo density on either property over the duration of the study and survival of dingoes exceeded 84% on each site. Neither individual nor sequential rounds of baiting therefore resulted in a reduction in dingo density approaching 75%, which is necessary for dingo population control in this environment. Several factors are likely to have contributed to the limited effect of baiting, including bait uptake by non-target species, low encounter rate with baits and aversive responses to baits. Consideration of baiting practices, including bait rate, frequency and attractiveness, as well as evaluation of the net returns of baiting should be addressed in future work to ensure dingo control achieves its intended aims to reduce dingo abundance and/or impacts. Crown Copyright (C) 2021 Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Background. Large carnivores maintain the stability and functioning of ecosystems. Currently, many carnivore species face declining population sizes due to natural and anthropogenic pressures. The leopard, Panthera pardus, is probably the most widely distributed and highly adaptable large felid globally, still persisting in most of its historic range. However, we lack subspecies-level data on country or regional scale on population trends, as ecological monitoring approaches are difficult to apply on such wide-ranging species. We used genetic data from leopards sampled across the Indian subcontinent to investigate population structure and patterns of demographic decline. Methods. We collected faecal samples from the Terai-Arc landscape of northern India and identified 56 unique individuals using a panel of 13 microsatellite markers. We merged this data with already available 143 leopard individuals and assessed genetic structure at country scale. Subsequently, we investigated the demographic history of each identified subpopulations and compared genetic decline analyses with countrywide local extinction probabilities. Results. Our genetic analyses revealed four distinct subpopulations corresponding to Western Ghats, Deccan Plateau-Semi Arid, Shivalik and Terai region of the north Indian landscape, each with high genetic variation. Coalescent simulations with microsatellite loci revealed a possibly human-induced 75-90% population decline between similar to 120-200 years ago across India. Population-specific estimates of genetic decline are in concordance with ecological estimates of local extinction probabilities in these subpopulations obtained from occupancy modeling of the historic and current distribution of leopards in India. Conclusions. Our results confirm the population decline of a widely distributed, adaptable large carnivore. We re-iterate the relevance of indirect genetic methods for such species in conjunction with occupancy assessment and recommend that detailed, landscape-level ecological studies on leopard populations are critical to future conservation efforts. Our approaches and inference are relevant to other widely distributed, seemingly unaffected carnivores such as the leopard."	NonUS	Genetics
"The spatial variation in size structure of mesozooplankton and its relationship with environmental factors were studied from January 2006 to December 2010 in Jiaozhou Bay. The spatial body-size patterns of zooplankton differed significantly from the inner to the outer bay, and have a significant correlation with environmental variables, especially nutrients, salinity and water depth. The abundance of total zooplankton and small size ranks presented a decreasing gradient from the inner to the outer part, and was positive correlated with nutrients and negative with salinity, while the abundance of large size ranks exhibited an opposite gradient, and was positive correlated with water depth and negative with nutrients. The size spectra slope and size diversity were generally low in the inner part and closely related to body size ranks. Our results suggest that size structure patterns of zooplankton showed a clear spatial pattern and significantly associated with environmental factors in marine ecosystems."	NonUS	Ecology
"Global climate change is rapidly altering coastal marine ecosystems that are important for food production. A comprehensive understanding of how organisms will respond to these complex environmental changes can come only from observing and studying species within their natural environment. To this end, the effects of environmental drivers - pH, dissolved oxygen content, salinity, and temperature-on Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas physiology were evaluated in an outplant experiment. Sibling juvenile oysters were outplanted to eelgrass and unvegetated habitat at 5 different estuarine sites within the Acidification Nearshore Monitoring Network in Washington State, USA, to evaluate how regional environmental drivers influence molecular physiology. Within each site, we also determined if eelgrass presence, which buffered pH conditions, changed the oyster's expressed proteome. A novel, 2-step, gel-free proteomic approach was used to identify differences in protein abundance in C. gigas ctenidia tissue after a 29 d outplant by (1) identifying proteins in a data-independent acquisition survey step and (2) comparing relative quantities of targeted environmental response proteins using selected reaction monitoring. While there was no difference in protein abundance detected between habitats or among sites within Puget Sound, C. gigas outplanted at Willapa Bay had significantly higher abundances of antioxidant enzymes and molecular chaperones. Environmental factors at Willapa Bay, such as higher average temperature, may have driven this protein abundance pattern. These findings generate a suite of new hypotheses for lab and field experiments to compare the effects of regional conditions on physiological responses of marine invertebrates."	USA	ClimateChange
"Penaeus brasiliensis and P. paulensis are shrimp species which overlap their distribution only in the Southwest Atlantic. In addition, they are fishery resources intensively exploited. The interactions between these two sympatric species, especially sharing of food resources, are still unknown. We have investigated the niche breadth of juvenile pink shrimps in two proximal coastal nurseries (Sepetiba and Guanabara bays) located in Southeast Brazil (similar to 23 degrees W) by means of stable isotopes and stomach content analyses. These two bays are important nurseries for these species and are located in one of the most populous regions of Brazil. Diets were basically composed of benthic invertebrates (mollusks, crustaceans and polychaetes), particulate organic matter and benthic diatoms. We detected significant spatial differences in isotopic compositions (delta C-13 and delta N-15), with pink shrimps from Guanabara Bay displaying the lowest values of both isotopes. The delta C-13 range and diet support that benthic microalgae are the primary producers in P. brasiliensis and P. paulensis food chains. Trophic diversity was higher in Guanabara Bay based on delta N-15 range, Standard Ellipse Area, and Centroid Distance metrics, displaying greater individual variability in isotopic signatures compared to Sepetiba Bay, probably due to enhanced food diversity and spatial heterogeneity in the former. The overlap in the ellipses areas between the two shrimp species was greater in Sepetiba Bay and indicates a greater sharing of resources that should be more abundant and available. Niche metrics analysis revealed greater spatial rather than interspecific differences. We advocate paying particular attention to monitoring the pink shrimps of Sepetiba Bay due to their smaller trophic niche width and lower delta N-15 range, which increases their sensitivity to changing habitat, mainly due to human actions."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Collection methods can be biased, leading to misperceptions of population composition. We tested if collection method (footholds, snares, and shooting) gave different perceptions of demography or morphology of 3539 eastern coyotes (Canis latrans Say, 1823). We found no differences in sex ratios of animals among methods, but did find some evidence that younger, lighter, and smaller animals were more likely to be collected by footholds than with snares. Female reproductive histories (placental scars) did not differ among methods. In a subsample of 232 animals, we found no evidence of differences in helminth parasitism relative to collection method. Overall, our large sample for the non-parasite analyses facilitated finding statistical significance; the biological implications hinge on the precision required in estimating population composition and the focal characteristics being compared. For example, mass was 5.3% lower for coyotes caught with footholds versus snares and 10.4% lower for coyotes caught with footholds versus being shot, whereas linear trait measurements of coyotes caught with footholds were generally smaller by at most 4.5% compared with other methods (broadly consistent with linear versus volumetric measurements). Our study provides important baseline information for making inferences about populations of coyotes (and other species) sampled using only a single collection method."	NonUS	Ecology
"The ecology of habitats along the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) shelf-break has rarely been investigated. Thus, there is little understanding of how associated fishes interact with deeper environments. We examined relationships between deep-reef fish communities and benthic habitat structure. We sampled 48 sites over a large depth gradient (54-260 m) in the central GBR using Baited Remote Underwater Video Stations and multibeam sonar. Fish community composition differed both among multiple shelf-break reefs and habitats within reefs. Epibenthic cover decreased with depth. Deep epibenthic cover included sponges, corals, and macro-algae, with macro-algae present to 194 m. Structural complexity decreased with depth, with more calcified reef, boulders, and bedrock in shallower depths. Deeper sites were flatter and more homogeneous with softer substratum. Habitats were variable within depth strata and were reflected in different fish assemblages among sites and among locations. Overall, fish trophic groups changed with depth and included generalist and benthic carnivores, piscivores, and planktivores while herbivores were rare below 50 m. While depth influenced where trophic groups occurred, site orientation and habitat morphology determined the composition of trophic groups within depths. Future conservation strategies will need to consider the vulnerability of taxa with narrow distributions and habitat requirements in unique shelf-break environments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Deep-ocean biology has been the least explored-although rapidly growing-area of research. In particular, behavior, reproduction and ecology of deeper-living squids remain poorly documented due to the extreme difficulties of encountering and capturing them. Here we report on a mature/maturing female giant squid, Architeuthis dux, caught as by-catch in a fishery set-net. Microsatellite paternity analysis was carried out on the implanted spermatangia scattered widely over the body surface. Using genomic DNA from 42 Architeuthis individual muscle tissue specimens, four polymorphic microsatellite markers were developed, of which three were used for genotyping. Surprisingly, it was found that all 66 of the successfully genotyped spermatangia located on five different body parts were derived from a single male, suggesting that only single-pair copulation can lead to entire sperm loading. From this result and previous findings, the possibilities of the reproductive mode of this species are explored in the light of postcopulatory sexual selection mechanisms."	NonUS	Genetics
"The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling pathway plays pivotal roles in various biological processes during embryogenesis and adult homeostasis. Transmembrane anterior posterior transformation 1 (TAPT1) is an evolutionarily conserved protein involved in murine axial skeletal patterning. Genetic defects in TAPT1 result in complex lethal osteochondrodysplasia. However, the specific cellular activity of TAPT1 is not clear. Herein, we report that TAPT1 inhibits BMP signaling and destabilizes the SMAD1/5 protein by facilitating its interaction with SMURF1 E3 ubiquitin ligase, which leads to SMAD1/5 proteasomal degradation. In addition, we found that the activation of BMP signaling facilitates the redistribution of TAPT1 and promotes its association with SMAD1. TAPT1-deficient murine C2C12 myoblasts or C3H/ 10T1/2 mesenchymal stem cells exhibit elevated SMAD1/5/9 protein levels, which amplifies BMP activation, in turn leading to a boost in the transdifferentiation or differentiation processing of these distinct TAPT1-deficient cell lines changing into mature osteoblasts. Furthermore, the enhancing effect of TAPT1 deficiency on osteogenic differentiation of C3H/10T1/ 2 cells was observed in an in vivo ectopic bone formation model. Importantly, a subset of TAPT1 mutations identified in humans with lethal skeletal dysplasia exhibited gain-offunction activity on SMAD1 protein levels. Thus, this finding elucidates the role of TAPT1 in the regulation of SMAD1/5 protein stability for controlling BMP signaling."	NonUS	Genetics
"Colobine monkeys generally spend less time each day engaged in social interactions than other primates. However, a notable feature of their social interaction involves females exchanging infants (i.e., infant handling). Here, we report on the handling of an infant in relation to pelage color change in a group of black-and-white colobus (Colobus guereza) housed in the Japan Monkey Centre. We found large variation in the speed of infant pelage color change among body parts (range 100-216 days) and documented that infant handling by non-mothers was related to the infant pelage color and/ or moving ability (infant independence). Non-mothers, especially females, were clearly attracted to the newborn infant and often handled the infant in a few weeks of its birth, but handling decreased with infant age and corresponded both with the loss of the natal coat color and the infant acquiring effective locomotory independence. We document interesting patterns, but the conclusions we can draw are limited and future research should consider separating effects of infant pelage color and infant locomotory independence and evaluate the effect of infant body mass."	NonUS	Ecology
"Freshwater sponges (Porifera: Spongillida) are an understudied fauna. Many U.S. state and federal conservation agencies lack fundamental information such as species lists and distribution data. Such information is necessary for management of aquatic resources and maintaining biotic diversity. During the months of June, July, and August of 2013, 2014 and 2015 a survey was conducted in Tennessee to document species of freshwater sponges and obtain preliminary distribution data. Selected rivers and streams were sampled at two to five sites. A total of 520 sponge samples were collected. Spicules and gemmules were viewed and photographed using Scanning Electron Microscopy. Thirteen or 39% of the known species of freshwater sponges occurring in the North America have been collected from Tennessee's rivers and streams. Eunapius fragilis, Spangilla lacustris, and Trochoapongilla horrida were the most abundant and widely distributed species. Corvospongilla becki and Heteremeyenia latitenta were the least frequently encountered sponges."	USA	Biodiversity
"Recruitment success for juvenile fishes that take part in seasonal migrations may be dependent on the environmental conditions during the first winter of life. Juvenile bluefish (Pomatomus saltatrix) in the USA migrate from mid-Atlantic waters during the fall to overwinter in the coastal ocean of Florida and return again in the spring. Little is known regarding the recruitment dynamics and feeding ecology of juvenile bluefish at the southern edge of the species US range, particularly during winter. We examined the cohort structure, feeding habits, and lipid content of juvenile bluefish during late fall and winter in the northern Florida coastal ocean. We found that three juvenile bluefish cohorts migrated to the area at distinct temporal and spatial intervals. Abundance of juvenile bluefish was greatest during January and was dominated by the summer-spawned cohort. We first collected fall-spawned fish in January, and this was the only cohort collected by March, indicating the possibility of local spawning from a resident bluefish population. Stomach content analysis revealed that all three juvenile bluefish cohorts used the northern Florida coastal ocean to forage during the winter, and striped anchovy (Anchoa hepsetus) was the primary prey. Feeding intensity of juvenile bluefish was greatest in December and January, and their lipid content increased throughout the winter. Juvenile bluefish recruited to the coastal shelf waters of northern Florida, where the region provided this popular sportfish with distinct overwintering resources."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Nearshore marine systems provide multiple economic and ecological services to human communities. Several studies addressing the climate change stressors and the inappropriate use of the sea indicate a decline of coastal areas. An extensive monitoring of the most important marine sites and protected areas is crucial to design effective environmental-friendly measures to support the sustainable development of coastal regions. A 70-year-long wave climate analysis is presented to study the climatology of the area belonging to the Marine Experimental Station of Capo Tirone, Italy. The analysis is based on the global atmospheric reanalysis developed by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, validated through an observed buoy dataset recorded by the Italian Sea Wave Measurement Network. No significant long-term trends have been detected. The need to set up new monitoring stations has been pointed out by means of a hydrodynamic model developed at the regional scale, evaluating the effect of the local morphology on the nearshore wave climate and highlighting the importance of surveying the marine protected area of Capo Tirone located therein."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"As part of the New Zealand government Ocean Survey 20/20 programme (OS 20/20, 2006-2013), samples from the Chatham Rise and Challenger Plateau collected in 2007 were analysed to determine the effects of key environmental parameters, in particular sediment and water mass properties, on spatial changes in the community structure (abundance, diversity and community composition) of bathyal asellotan isopods. Benthic collections were obtained in austral autumn (May/June 2007) and included a total of 21 epibenthic sledge samples taken from the upper slope between 218 and 1239 m. Due to the contrasting environmental settings between the Chatham Rise and Challenger Plateau, in terms of surface productivity and habitat heterogeneity, we expected the abundance, regional (or gamma-) diversity and community composition of benthic isopods to significantly differ between the two regions, and furthermore local (or alpha-) diversity and abundance (density) to decrease with increasing depth. Consistent with our assumptions, multivariate PERMANOVA analysis revealed a clear distinction in species composition between the Chatham Rise and Challenger Plateau with satellite surface chlorophyll (Chl) a and bottom temperature being the main environmental drivers. In contrast to previous benthic studies from the same sampling campaign, however, differences in isopod density and diversity between the two regions were not significant, either at species, or generic and family level. In addition, no depth-related changes in abundance and diversity could be observed at any hierarchical level. Instead, isopod densities at species and generic level were positively correlated with satellite surface Chl a and %silt, whilst species and generic diversity could be positively linked to the amount of total organic matter (TOM) in surficial sediments. In total, 97 asellote species in 54 genera and 15 families could be identified from both regions, of which 90.7% were likely new species. Species diversity was average to high when compared to other regions in the Northern and Southern hemispheres. However, neither for Chatham Rise nor for the Challenger Plateau did the species accumulation curves reach an asymptote, indicating that additional samples are required to provide more robust diversity estimates."	NonUS	Ecology
"Although a landscape is a single environmental system, human systems of governance at the landscape scale are often fragmented across jurisdictions and diverse stakeholders, impeding coordinated planning to maintain ecological connectivity. We sought solutions to overcome this challenge for wildlife corridor conservation in a rapidly developing, multifunctional landscape in one of North America's most endangered ecoregions. Circuitscape modelling was used to identify key wildlife movement corridors through our study area. We then describe how the results of this modelling have informed a collaborative multi-stakeholder process leading to shared conservation objectives across scales of governance and illustrate its success with our case study. We conclude that achieving landscape-scale conservation objectives requires ongoing and coordinated collaboration facilitated by a dedicated group of individuals and informed by science."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Pleistocene glacial cycles associated with geological and climatic changes have been suggested to affect the distribution and abundance of marine organisms in the north-western Pacific. In addition to historical processes, several contemporary forces are associated with spatial distributions and genetic structuring of marine species. Herein, we gathered partial mitochondrial control region sequences of chub mackerel Scomber japonicus from 14 localities over most of its geographical range in the north-western Pacific to infer the effect of Pleistocene climatic fluctuations on its historical demography, and to assess the role of historical process and contemporary factors in shaping present-day patterns of genetic differentiation within this species. Phylogeographic patterns revealed two distinct lineages that originated in vicariance during the Middle Pleistocene. However, there was no evidence of phylogeographic partitioning of haplotypes over the sampled range. Population structure analyses indicated a high degree of genetic homogeneity among chub mackerel populations. Demographic analyses indicated both lineages experienced Late Pleistocene population expansion. The observed genetic pattern of chub mackerel is consistent with a scenario of the survival of this species in at least two allopatric glacial refugia during the glacial maxima of the Pleistocene followed by massive dispersals throughout the north-western Pacific and species-specific ecological processes facilitating contemporary gene flow."	NonUS	Genetics
"Crocodylomorpha, which includes living crocodylians and their extinct relatives, has a rich fossil record, extending back for more than 200 million years. Unlike modern semi-aquatic crocodylians, extinct crocodylomorphs exhibited more varied lifestyles, ranging from marine to fully terrestrial forms. This ecological diversity was mirrored by a remarkable morphological disparity, particularly in terms of cranial morphology, which seems to be closely associated with ecological roles in the group. Here, I use geometric morphometrics to comprehensively investigate cranial shape variation and disparity in Crocodylomorpha. I quantitatively assess the relationship between cranial shape and ecology (i.e. terrestrial, aquatic, and semi-aquatic lifestyles), as well as possible allometric shape changes. I also characterize patterns of cranial shape evolution and identify regime shifts. I found a strong link between shape and size, and a significant influence of ecology on the observed shape variation. Terrestrial taxa, particularly notosuchians, have significantly higher disparity, and shifts to more longirostrine regimes are associated with large-bodied aquatic or semi-aquatic species. This demonstrates an intricate relationship between cranial shape, body size and lifestyle in crocodylomorph evolutionary history. Additionally, disparity-through-time analyses were highly sensitive to different phylogenetic hypotheses, suggesting the description of overall patterns among distinct trees. For crocodylomorphs, most results agree in an early peak during the Early Jurassic and another in the middle of the Cretaceous, followed by nearly continuous decline until today. Since only crown-group members survived through the Cenozoic, this decrease in disparity was likely the result of habitat loss, which narrowed down the range of crocodylomorph lifestyles."	USA	Ecology
"Environmental education programs are critically important for raising awareness about global and local environmental concerns, by providing the knowledge, tools, and means for young and old generations to cope with current challenges. Of the greatest importance is the implementation of environmental education programs in biodiversity hotspots where environmental crises are high and resources to fund mitigation programs are low. Madagascar is one such priority hotspot, featuring intensive wildlife-human conflicts due to shrinking natural environments. The Duke Lemur Center-SAVA Conservation Initiative has been conducting environmental education activities in the SAVA region, northeastern Madagascar, since 2011. These activities have been aimed at increasing awareness of local and global environmental issues and at stimulating the involvement of local school students. Our initiatives have predominantly supported teacher trainings to provide teachers with environmental education content, examples, and recommendations on how to integrate activities into their regular curricula, commonly referred to as a cascade approach. Due to logistical hurdles, including high teacher turnover rates, however, these interventions have not been monitored to assess their efficacy. Thus, to better inform current and future interventions, we designed and implemented classroom-based surveys to gather baseline data on the basic knowledge of SAVA students and their perceptions of the environment. We identify informational gaps in surveyed schools, including those located in large towns vs. villages, and those with trained vs. untrained teachers. Based on these results, we make recommendations for future environmental education efforts in the region, including activities that could address real-life environmental problems and decision-making solutions."	USA	Conservation
"The Patagonian Shelf Large Marine Ecosystem supports high levels of biodiversity and endemism and is one of the most productive marine ecosystems in the world. Despite the important role marine predators play in structuring the ecosystems, areas of high diversity where multiple predators congregate remains poorly known on the Patagonian Shelf. Here, we used biotelemetry and biologging tags to track the movements of six seabird species and three pinniped species breeding at the Falkland Islands. Using Generalized Additive Models, we then modelled these animals' use of space as functions of dynamic and static environmental indices that described their habitat. Based on these models, we mapped the predicted distribution of animals from both sampled and unsampled colonies and thereby identified areas where multiple species were likely to overlap at sea. Maximum foraging trip distance ranged from 79 to 1,325 km. However, most of the 1,891 foraging trips by 686 animals were restricted to the Patagonian Shelf and shelf slope, which highlighted a preference for these habitats. Of the seven candidate explanatory covariates used to predict distribution, distance from the colony was retained in models for all species and negatively affected the probability of occurrence. Predicted overlap among species was highest on the Patagonian Shelf around the Falkland Islands and the Burdwood Bank. The predicted area of overlap is consistent with areas that are also important habitat for marine predators migrating from distant breeding locations. Our findings provide comprehensive multi-species predictions for some of the largest marine predator populations on the Patagonian Shelf, which will contribute to future marine spatial planning initiatives. Crucially, our findings highlight that spatially explicit conservation measures are likely to benefit multiple species, while threats are likely to impact multiple species."	NonUS	Conservation
"The availability of low-cost wildlife trackers increases the capacity to collect valuable ecological data when research budgets are limited. We converted a commercially available global positioning system (GPS) product into a low-cost tracking device that sends data via the mobile phone network, and assessed its performance under varying conditions. We established a stationary test, deploying devices along a continuum from open urban areas to topographically and structurally complex forested sites. We tested three features of the device: (a) the GPS, by measuring fix success rate, fix precision and horizontal dilution of precision (HDOP), (b) remote download capacity via the mobile phone network and (c) battery drain. Measures of GPS performance demonstrated high fix success rates and precision. HDOP values were influenced by habitat type and topographical position, but generally remained very low, giving an acceptable degree of error for most applications in wildlife research. Devices experienced delayed data transmission at sites with less phone reception, and faster battery drain at sites with denser vegetation. We recorded device malfunctions in 8.2% of the 110 sampling locations, but these were not associated with habitat type or topography. Our device was effective under a wide range of conditions, and the development process we used provides guidance to other researchers aiming to develop cost-effective wildlife trackers. Reducing the financial and labour costs of acquiring high-quality movement data will improve the capacity to increase sample size in animal movement studies."	NonUS	Technology
"Marine spatial planning (MSP) is occurring throughout the world, as communities and nation-states seek to resolve spatial conflicts and competition in coastal areas and reduce the impacts of human uses on marine biodiversity. The Marine Plan Partnership (MaPP) in British Columbia, Canada, is a successful example of collaborative marine planning between First Nations governments and the British Columbia provincial government, achieving the protection of ecological and cultural values, while supporting sustainable economic activities. The collaborative planning process was pre-dated by territorial marine planning by each participating First Nation, which allowed for the protection of First Nations governance and economy, cultural values and activities, and resource management priorities."	NonUS	Conservation
"As the climate changes and ecosystems shift toward novel combinations of species, the methods and metrics of conservation science are becoming less species-centric. To meet this growing need, marine conservation paleobiologists stand to benefit from the addition of new, taxon-free benthic indices to the live-dead analysis tool kit. These indices, which were developed to provide actionable, policy-specific data, can be applied to the readily preservable component of benthic communities (e.g., mollusks) to assess the ecological quality status of the entire community. Because these indices are taxon-free, they remain applicable even as the climate changes and novel communities develop-making them a potentially valuable complement to traditionally applied approaches for live-dead analysis, which tend to focus on maintaining specific combinations of species under relatively stable environmental conditions. Integrating geohistorical data with these established indices has potential to increase the salience of the live-dead approach in the eyes of resource managers and other stakeholders."	USA	Technology
"Lake Asejire in Nigeria is polluted with untreated effluent from nearby aquacultural, urban, agricultural and industrial zones. The metal laden effluent pose a hazard to the health of fish and fish consumers in the lake. This study aimed to (1) assess the spatial and seasonal variations in the levels of cadmium, cobalt, copper, iron, lead, nickel, mercury and zinc in water, sediments and gills and stomach tissues of mud catfish, Clarias gariepinus and Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus; and (2) evaluate environmental risks posed by heavy metals in Lake Asejire. Potential ecological risks of heavy metals were assessed using the pollution loading, geoaccumulation and potential ecological risk indices. Levels of Fe, Co, Cu, Cd, Pb, Ni and Zn were high in water and sediments and in some cases exceeded the Nigerian Standards for Drinking Water Quality and World Health Organisation threshold values. There were significant (p < 0.05) seasonal variations in the levels of all metals in water and sediments. Significantly high Fe, Co, Cd, Pb, Ni and Zn levels recorded in gills and stomach tissues of mud catfish and Nile tilapia relate well with metal levels in water and sediments. The geoaccumulation index reflected heavy Cu and Zn contamination in sediments whereas Cd pose serious ecological risks to aquatic organisms in the lake. Accurate assessment of the spatial and temporal variability of heavy metal levels in Lake Asejire is crucial for pollution control and environmental management. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of African Institute of Mathematical Sciences / Next Einstein Initiative."	NonUS	Ecology
"Recent research suggests contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) are widespread and environmentally relevant concentrations can impact fishes. However, little is known about impacts of CECs to long-lived or rare species. The objective of this study was to characterize CEC concentrations in lake sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens) serum and gametes. Blood serum was collected non-lethally from lake sturgeon at four lower Great Lakes basin sites: Detroit, upper Niagara, lower Niagara, and St. Lawrence rivers; additionally, gametes were collected from lake sturgeon in the St. Lawrence River. Samples were analyzed for pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). Overall, 44 different PPCPs were identified in serum and gamete samples across sites, with 22 PPCPs identified in at least 25% of serum samples and three PPCPs identified in 25% of gamete samples. PPCP concentrations in serum and gametes ranged from 0.00208 to 130 ppb and 0.00538-190 ppb, respectively. NMDS ordination revealed differences in the presence and concentrations of PPCPs in lake sturgeon serum across sites, however, N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide (DEET), hydrocortisone, benztropine, and amitriptyline were detected in at least one serum sample at all sites. Additionally, DEET, 10-hydroxyamitriptyline, and sertraline were detected in >25% of gamete samples collected from the St. Lawrence River. Twenty-six PBDE congeners were identified in 25% of serum samples and 24 were identified in 25% of gamete samples. PBDEs in serum were present across all sites and in gametes of St. Lawrence River lake sturgeon, and total PBDE concentrations in serum and gametes ranged from 0.184 to 12.7 ppb and 0.0826-0.44 ppb, respectively. Managers of lake sturgeon populations may need to consider the impacts of CECs if reproductive, developmental, behavioral, growth effects, or mortality are observed in the Great Lakes basin or other areas that are impacted by increased exposures to PPCPs and PBDEs. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd."	USA	Fisheries
"In this study, we assess prey consumption by the marine mammal community in the northeast Atlantic [including 21 taxa, across three regions: (I) the Icelandic shelf, Denmark Strait, and Iceland Sea (ICE); (II) the Greenland and Norwegian Seas (GN); and (III) the Barents Sea (BS)], and compare mammal requirements with removals by fisheries. To determine prey needs, estimates of energetic requirements were combined with diet and abundance information for parameterizing simple allometric scaling models, taking uncertainties into account through bootstrapping procedures. In total, marine mammals in the ICE, GN, and BS consumed 13.4 [Confidence Interval (CI): 5.6-25.0], 4.6 (CI: 1.9-8.6), and 7.1 (CI: 2.8-13.8) million tonnes of prey year(-1). Fisheries removed 1.55, 1.45, and 1.16 million tonnes year(-1) from these three areas, respectively. While fisheries generally operate at significantly higher trophic levels than marine mammals, we find that the potential for direct competition between marine mammals and fisheries is strongest in the GN and weakest in the BS. Furthermore, our results also demonstrate significant changes in mammal consumption compared to previous and more focused studies over the last decades. These changes likely reflect both ongoing population recoveries from historic whaling and the current rapid physical and biological changes of these high-latitude systems. We argue that changing distributions and abundances of mammals should be considered when establishing fisheries harvesting strategies, to ensure effective fisheries management and good conservation practices of top predators in such rapidly changing systems."	NonUS	Fisheries
"The Kavango-Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area supports large-scale migrations of wildlife that occur in a mixed agri-conservation landscape in five Southern African countries. Human-Wildlife Conflict is a key challenge and understanding the drivers of communities' willingness to coexist with wildlife is thus critical. Community based natural resource management (CBNRM) is a widely used economic approach to foster human-wildlife coexistence with the assumption that monetary benefits can buy tolerance by offsetting the disservices of living with wildlife. We tested this assumption and hypothesized that Namibians would be more tolerant towards wildlife than Zambians because they received higher monetary benefits from wildlife. We used the Wildlife Tolerance Model (WTM) as the framework to define tolerance and identify tolerance drivers. We found Namibians tolerance was higher for lion, elephant and hyena but not for kudu and baboon. After controlling for confounding variables of the WTM that could potentially explain differences in tolerance, contrary to expectation, the monetary benefits did not account for higher Namibian tolerance. Instead, only nonmonetary benefits explained the higher tolerance. We used crowding theory to explain this finding, proposing that CBNRM in Namibia and the monetary benefits from the program crowd in intrinsic motivation to appreciate and tolerate wildlife."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Rapid urbanization has become an area of crucial concern in conservation, owing to urban infrastructure impacts on natural ecosystems. Urban infrastructures are often poor surrogates for natural habitats, and a diversity of eco-engineering approaches has been trialed to enhance their ecological value. Marinas are among the most common human-made infrastructures found on the shoreline, and cause substantial habitat destruction within the sheltered coastal areas previously used as nursery grounds by many fish species. The present study aimed at testing the suitability of installing artificial habitats (Biohut (R)) in marinas to reinforce the nursery function of the Marchica coastal lagoon, which historically hosts many species of juvenile groupers, including the endangered dusky grouper Epinephelus marginatus. Our hypothesis - that artificial habitats, by increasing habitat complexity, enhance the ecological value of a marina - was strongly supported by our results. The Biohuts hosted a high relative density of juvenile dusky and comb groupers in comparison with natural habitats. They can, therefore, be considered as a reservoir for juvenile groupers, including the endangered dusky grouper, and are suitable to reinforce the nursery function of this coastal lagoon. Subsequently, Biohuts can act as a ready-made nursery area to support the creation of small marine reserves that can reinforce the grouper population re-colonization along the coast of North Africa, which is considered to be the region from which the individuals populating the north western Mediterranean originated, and thus provide for long-term recovery of the endangered dusky grouper."	NonUS	Conservation
"The presence of phytoplankton parasites along the water column was explored at the Long-Term Ecological Station MareChiara (LTER-MC) in the Gulf of Naples (Mediterranean Sea) in October 2019. Microscopy analyses showed diatoms dominating the phytoplankton community in the upper layers (0-20 m). Metabarcoding data from the water column showed the presence of Chytridiomycota predominantly in the upper layers coinciding with the vertical distribution of diatoms. Laboratory incubations of natural samples enriched with different diatom cultures confirmed parasitic interactions of some of those chytrids-including members of Kappamyces-with diatom taxa. The temporal dynamics of diatoms and chytrids was also explored in a 3-year metabarcoding time-series (2011-2013) from surface waters of the study area and in sediment samples. Chytrids were recurrently present at low relative abundances, and some taxa found to infect diatoms in the incubation experiments were also identified in the ASV time-series. However, co-occurrence analyses did not show any clear or recurrent pairing patterns for chytrid and diatom taxa along the 3 years. The chytrid community in the sediments showed a clearly different species composition compared with that recorded in the water column samples, with higher diversity and relative abundance. The combination of observations, incubations, and metabarcoding confirmed that parasites are a common component of marine protist communities at LTER-MC. Host-parasite interactions must be determined and quantified to understand their role and the impact they have on phytoplankton dynamics."	NonUS	Ecology
"Seagrass meadows are important ecosystem engineers, providing habitat for a range of marine organisms which sustain many ecosystem functions. Due to global loss of seagrass, conservation and restoration incentives are rapidly increasing. However, it is not well understood how environmental setting affects the structural and functional diversity of macrofaunal communities in eelgrass meadows (Zostera marina), and to what extent their importance as macrofaunal habitat is affected by abiotic variables across spatial scales. In the present study, we explored macrofaunal communities in eelgrass meadows and adjacent bare habitats across contrasting envi-ronments in Southern Sweden. We assessed taxonomic and functional diversity in concert and evaluated envi-ronmental properties as explanatory variables for the observed differences. Our results showed that eelgrass meadows supported a significantly higher taxonomic richness and abundance compared to adjacent bare sedi-ments whereas differences in structural and functional diversity was mainly a function of site and highly influenced by dominance of the polychaete Pygospio elegans. Interestingly, functional redundancy was higher in brackish compared to marine sites, illustrating the effect of generalist species that cover a wide range of func-tional traits. Abiotic sediment variables did not explain the variation in structural or functional diversity, but were largely overshadowed by the effect of eelgrass and its belowground biomass. From a restoration perspec-tive, our results imply that the positive effects of eelgrass restoration are similar across environments and that the presence of eelgrass is the most important factor in structuring benthic communities, but the effects on functional diversity and redundancy need further attention."	NonUS	Ecology
"The oceans are absorbing additional carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and projected future CO2 levels and ocean acidification could have negative implications for many marine organisms, especially during early life stages. Cephalopods are ecologically important in marine ecosystems, yet the potential effects of increased partial pressure of CO2 (pCO(2)) in seawater on cephalopod reproduction and embryonic development are little studied. We allowed adult two-toned pygmy squid (Idiosepius pygmaeus) to breed in ambient control (similar to 445 mu atm; similar to 8.05 pH(T)) or elevated pCO(2) conditions (similar to 940 mu atm; similar to 7.78 pH(T)) and compared reproductive traits in adults and developmental characteristics of their eggs, which remained in control or elevated pCO(2) treatments until hatching. Breeding pairs at elevated pCO(2) produced clutches with 40% fewer eggs, vitelli that were 14% smaller directly after spawning, embryos that were 5% smaller upon hatching, and eggs with an 8% increase in late-stage egg swelling compared with pairs at control conditions. Elevated pCO(2) did not affect fertility, time to hatch, or hatching success. Eggs were laid 40% closer together in elevated pCO(2) compared with control conditions, indicating a possible effect of elevated pCO(2) on reproductive behaviour. These results show that elevated pCO(2) can adversely affect reproduction and embryonic development of the two-toned pygmy squid. As the potential for adaptation is influenced by reproductive success, testing the capacity for squid to adapt to future ocean conditions should be a priority for future research."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"The skin is the first line of defense between an animal and its environment, and disruptions in skin-associated microorganisms can be linked to an animal's health and nutritional state. To better understand the skin microbiome of large whales, high-throughput sequencing of partial small subunit rRNA genes was used to study the skin-associated bacteria of 89 seemingly healthy humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) sampled along the Western Antarctic Peninsula (WAP) during early (2010) and late (2013) austral summers. Six core groups of bacteria were present in 93% or more of all humpback skin samples. A shift was observed in the average relative abundances of these core bacteria over time, with the emergence of four additional core groups of bacteria that corresponded to a decrease in water temperature, possibly caused by season-or foraging-related changes in skin biochemistry that influenced microbial growth, or other temporal factors. The skin microbiome differed between whales sampled at several regional locations along the WAP, suggesting that environmental factors or population may also influence the whale skin microbiome. Overall, the skin microbiome of humpback whales appears to provide insight into animal-and environment-related factors and may serve as a useful indicator for animal health or ecosystem alterations. IMPORTANCE The microbiomes of wild animals are currently understudied but may provide information about animal health and/or animal-environment interactions. In the largest sampling of any marine mammal microbiome, this study demonstrates conservation in the skin microbiome of 89 seemingly healthy humpback whales sampled in the Western Antarctic Peninsula, with shifts in the bacterial community composition related to temporal and regional variability. This study is important because it suggests that the skin microbiome of humpback whales could provide insight into animal nutritional or seasonal/environment-related factors, which are becoming increasingly important to recognize due to unprecedented rates of climate change and anthropogenic impact on ocean ecosystems."	USA	Ecology
"Trophic cascade theory predicts that predator effects should extend to influence carbon cycling in ecosystems. Yet, there has been little empirical evidence in natural ecosystems to support this hypothesis. Here, we use a naturally-occurring trophic cascade to provide evidence that predators help protect sedimentary organic carbon stocks in coral reef ecosystems. Our results show that predation risk altered the behavior of herbivorous fish, whereby it constrained grazing to areas close to the refuge of the patch reefs. Macroalgae growing in riskier areas further away from the reef were released from grazing pressure, which subsequently promoted carbon accumulation in the sediments underlying the macroalgal beds. Here we found that carbon stocks furthest away from the reef edge were similar to 24% higher than stocks closest to the reef. Our results indicate that predators and herbivores play an important role in structuring carbon dynamics in a natural marine ecosystem, highlighting the need to conserve natural predator-prey dynamics to help maintain the crucial role of marine sediments in sequestering carbon."	USA	Ecology
"The aim of the study was to characterise the diversity and niche-specific colonization of Vibrio spp. in a marine aquaria system by a cultivation-dependent approach. A total of 53 Vibrio spp. isolates were cultured from different ecological niches in a marine aquarium including microplastic (MP) and sandy sediment particles (12 weeks after added sterile to the system), detritus, and the surrounding aquarium water. Based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence phylogeny and multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) the isolates were assigned to seven different phylotypes. Six phylotypes were identified by high probability to the species level. The highest phylotype diversity was cultured from detritus and water (six out of seven phylotypes), while only two phylotypes were cultured from MP and sediment particles. Genomic fingerprinting indicated an even higher genetic diversity of Vibrio spp. at the strain (genotype) level. Again, the highest diversity of genotypes was recovered from detritus and water while only few partially particle-type specific genotypes were cultured from MP and sediment particles. Phylotype V-2 formed an independent branch in the MLSA tree and could not be assigned to a described Vibrio species. Isolates of this phylotype showed highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to type strains of Vibrio japonicus (98.5%) and Vibrio caribbeanicus (98.4%). A representative isolate, strain THAF100(T), was characterised by a polyphasic taxonomic approach and Vibrio aquimaris sp. nov., with strain THAF100(T) (=DSM 109633(T )=LMG 31434(T) = CIP 111709(T)) as type strain, is proposed as novel species. (C) 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"To understand the mechanisms involved in organisms' responses to toxicity from oil pollution, we studied the effect of acute exposure (24 h) to the marine water-soluble fraction of diesel oil (WFDO) on the ascidian Styela plicata. We evaluated the mortality and behavior by means of the siphon reflex, and the response of blood cells (hemocytes) contained in the pharynx, by means of the production of nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), in addition to the activity of the antioxidant enzyme catalase (CAT). We also correlated oxidative stress with the activation of apoptotic pathways. No mortality occurred 24 h after the ascidians were exposed to 5% and 10% marine WFDO; however, the siphon reflex, a behavioral test based on the time that the animals took to close their siphons, increased. We also observed an inflammatory response, as estimated by the increase in the number of hemocytes in the pharynx. NO and ROS production and CAT activity were reduced, whereas caspase-3, a signaling molecule involved in apoptosis, was activated. This suggests that in ascidians acutely exposed to oil, another mechanism can occur in addition to oxidative stress. Another possibility is that WFDO may directly interact with cellular macromolecules and activate caspase-3, independently of generating oxidative stress. The results showed that components of diesel oil affected a marine organism, which showed reduced ROS production in the pharynx cells, including hemocytes, and activation of apoptotic pathways. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"This is a multidimensional review of mangrove fungi occurring as saprobes, pathogens and endophytes of a wide range of host substrates and those isolated from the water columns and sediments in mangroves. Eight-hundred and fifty taxa including 658 that are supported by both morphology and molecular data and 192 with only morphological data are listed. These constitute Ascomycota, the dominant group with 773 species, and 58 Basidiomycota, one Blastocladiomycota, five Chytridiomycota, and 13 Mucoromycota. This study also includes data on mangrove yeasts 103 Ascomycota, 39 Basidiomycota and 193 taxa isolated from sediments. Endophytes isolated from submerged parts of mangrove plants total 38. The most specious orders of mangrove fungi are Pleosporales 133, Saccharomycetales 102, Microascales 101, Eurotiales 87, Hypocreales 60 and Xylariales 54. Speciose genera include Candida 39, Aspergillus 53, Penicillium 17 and Corollospora 16. The highest number of mangrove fungi have been recorded from the Pacific Ocean 553, which is the largest ocean, followed by Indian 408 and Atlantic Oceans 259. Geographical distribution of mangrove fungi varied from ocean to ocean with only 109 taxa common to the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans. Of the various countries reported for mangrove fungi, India accommodates the highest number (339) followed by Thailand 303, Malaysia 171, Florida Everglades, USA 134 and Brunei 134. A total of 60 different mangrove plants and their associates have been surveyed for mangrove fungi. These results are discussed and compared with previous studies."	NonUS	Ecology
"Ocean acidification (OA) and its subsequent changes in seawater carbonate chemistry are threatening the survival of calcifying organisms. Due to their use of calcium carbonate to build their shells, marine molluscs are particularly vulnerable. This study investigated the effect of CO2-induced OA on adult European abalone (Haliotis tuberculata) using a multi-parameter approach. Biological (survival, growth), physiological (pH(T) of haemolymph, phagocytosis, metabolism, gene expression), and structural responses (shell strength, nano-indentation measurements, Scanning electron microscopy imaging of microstructure) were evaluated throughout a 5-month exposure to ambient (8.0) and low (7.7) pH conditions. During the first 2 months, the haemolymph pH was reduced, indicating that abalone do not compensate for the pH decrease of their internal fluid. Overall metabolism and immune status were not affected, suggesting that abalone maintain their vital functions when facing OA. However, after 4 months of exposure, adverse effects on shell growth, calcification, microstructure, and resistance were highlighted, whereas the haemolymph pH was compensated. Significant reduction in shell mechanical properties was revealed at pH 7.7, suggesting that OA altered the biomineral architecture leading to a more fragile shell. It is concluded that under lower pH, abalone metabolism is maintained at a cost to growth and shell integrity. This may impact both abalone ecology and aquaculture."	NonUS	Ecology
"The effects of anthropogenic landscape change on genetic population structure are well studied, but the temporal and spatial scales at which genetic structure can develop, especially in taxa with high dispersal capabilities like birds, are less well understood. We investigated population structure in the Hawaiian gallinule (Gallinula galeata sandvicensis), an endangered wetland specialist bird on the island of O`ahu (Hawai`i, USA). Hawaiian gallinules have experienced a gradual population recovery from near extinction in the 1950s, and have recolonized wetlands on O`ahu in the context of a rapidly urbanizing landscape. We genotyped 152 Hawaiian gallinules at 12 microsatellite loci and sequenced a 520 base-pair fragment of the ND2 region of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from individuals captured at 13 wetland locations on O`ahu in 2014-2016. We observed moderate to high genetic structuring (overall microsatellite F-ST = 0.098, mtDNA F-ST = 0.248) among populations of Hawaiian gallinules occupying wetlands at very close geographic proximity (e.g., 1.5-55 km). Asymmetry in gene flow estimates suggests that Hawaiian gallinules may have persisted in 2-3 strongholds which served as source populations that recolonized more recently restored habitats currently supporting large numbers of birds. Our results highlight that genetic structure can develop in taxa that are expanding their range after severe population decline, and that biologically significant structuring can occur over small geographic distances, even in avian taxa."	USA	Genetics
"The yellow catfish, Pelteobagrus fulvidraco, an important aquatic species of high economic value and excellent meat quality, has suffered great losses due to disease in intensive farming. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of Sargassum horneri extract (SHE) as a dietary supplement on growth performance, blood biochemical parameters, immune parameters and the liver antioxidant status of juvenile yellow catfish. A basal diet was supplemented with increasing amounts of SHE to formulate five groups of experimental diets (0 (control), 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.3%, and 0.4% SHE). Four-hundred and fifty fingerlings with approximate mean initial body weight of 3 g were fed the experimental diets for 8 weeks. The results of our present study revealed that the SHE-fed groups showed significantly higher final body weight, weight gain rate and specific growth rate than those in control group. Meanwhile, SHE diets increased significantly the levels of serum total protein and decreased significantly the contents of serum total cholesterol and triglyceride. The application of SHE in fish diet increased significantly the activities of serum lysozyme, alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase, and complement 3 contents. Furthermore, SHE supplementation increased antioxidant capacity and reduced lipid peroxidation in the liver of yellow catfish. In conclusion, dietary supplementation with SHE could promote growth performance, stimulate immune parameters, and improve hepatic antioxidant status in yellow catfish. Based on the final body weight, the secondary curve equation analysis suggested that SHE at 0.24% is recommended as the optimum level of supplementation."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Because management practices that promote the production of plant foods may differ from management practices that promote the production of aquatic invertebrates, a thorough understanding of the diet is needed to develop management strategies for various stages of the annual cycle for dabbling and diving ducks. Diet of dabbling (tribe Anatini) and diving (tribe Aythyini) ducks during breeding, autumn migration, and winter has been documented. Our goal was to estimate and compare the diet of blue-winged teal (Spatula discors), gadwall (Mareca strepera), mallard (Anas platyrhyncos), lesser scaup (Aythya affinis), and ring-necked duck (Aythya collaris) during spring migration in the Mississippi Flyway in the United States and evaluate variation among species. We collected 919 ducks for diet analysis from multiple wetlands at 6 sites across 4 states during the spring migration of 2006 and 2007. We collected >= 10 individuals of each species at each of the 6 study sites except we collected only 1 gadwall at the Scioto River site and 2 lesser scaup at the Cache River site. We detected that the proportion of plant and animal material in foods of each spring migrating duck species was in general intermediate of that found in wintering and breeding birds. Furthermore, the proportion of plant and animal material in the diet of species varied even among closely related species, indicating species are partitioning food sources along a protein-carbohydrate gradient during spring migration. We recommend that resources for ducks be managed to provide diverse wetlands to support the varied diets of even closely related species. (c) 2021 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Ecology
"Introduction The production of marine drugs in its normal habitats is often low and depends greatly on ecological conditions. Chemical synthesis of marine drugs is not economically feasible owing to their complex structures. Biotechnology application via elicitation represents a promising tool to enhance metabolites yield that has yet to be explored in soft corals. Objectives Study the elicitation impact of salicylic acid (SA) and six analogues in addition to a systemic acquired resistance inducer on secondary metabolites accumulation in the soft coral Sarcophyton ehrenbergi along with the symbiont zooxanthellae and if SA elicitation effect is extended to other coral species S. glaucum and Lobophyton pauciliforum. Methods Post elicitation in the three corals and zooxanthella, metabolites were extracted and analyzed via UHPLC-MS coupled with chemometric tools. Results Multivariate data analysis of the UHPLC-MS data set revealed clear segregation of SA, amino-SA, and acetyl-SA elicited samples. An increased level ca. 6- and 8-fold of the diterpenes viz., sarcophytonolide I, sarcophine and a C-28-sterol, was observed in SA and amino-SA groups, respectively. Post elicitation, the level of diepoxy-cembratriene increased 1.5-fold and 2.4-fold in 1 mM SA, and acetyl-SA (aspirin) treatment groups, respectively. S. glaucum and Lobophyton pauciliforum showed a 2-fold increase of diepoxy-cembratriene levels. Conclusion These results suggest that SA could function as a general and somewhat selective diterpene inducing signaling molecule in soft corals. Structural consideration reveals initial structure-activity relationship (SAR) in SA derivatives that seem important for efficient diterpene and sterol elicitation."	NonUS	Technology
"The presence of wildlife adjacent to and within urban spaces is a growing phenomenon globally. When wildlife's presence in urban spaces has negative impacts for people and wildlife, nonlethal and lethal interventions on animals invariably result. Recent evidence suggests that individuals in wild animal populations vary in both their propensity to use urban space and their response to nonlethal management methods. Understanding such interindividual differences and the drivers of urban space use could help inform management strategies. We use direct observation and high-resolution GPS (1 Hz) to track the space use of 13 adult individuals in a group of chacma baboons (Papio ursinus) living at the urban edge in Cape Town, South Africa. The group is managed by a dedicated team of field rangers, who use aversive conditioning to reduce the time spent by the group in urban spaces. Adult males are larger, more assertive, and more inclined to enter houses, and as such are disproportionately subject to last resort lethal management. Field rangers therefore focus efforts on curbing the movements of adult males, which, together with high-ranking females and their offspring, comprise the bulk of the group. However, our results reveal that this focus allows low-ranking, socially peripheral female baboons greater access to urban spaces. We suggest that movement of these females into urban spaces, alone or in small groups, is an adaptive response to management interventions, especially given that they have no natural predators. These results highlight the importance of conducting behavioral studies in conjunction with wildlife management, to ensure effective mitigation techniques."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The long-held belief that animal-mediated pollination is absent in the sea has recently been contradicted in seagrasses, motivating investigations of other marine phyla. This is particularly relevant in red algae, in which female gametes are not liberated and male gametes are not flagellated. Using experiments with the isopod Idotea balthica and the red alga Gracilaria gracilis, we demonstrate that biotic interactions dramatically increase the fertilization success of the alga through animal transport of spermatia on their body. This discovery suggests that animal-mediated fertilization could have evolved independently in terrestrial and marine environments and raises the possibility of its emergence in the sea before plants moved ashore."	NonUS	Ecology
"Trace metal and metalloid levels were measured in eggs of the NW Atlantic leatherback turtle (Dermochelys coriacea) from nesting grounds in the Bocas del Toro province, Panama, to infer exposure and associated risks to local communities. Samples were analyzed for a set of 26 essential and non-essential elements using inductively coupled plasma techniques. Median concentrations of Fe, Zn, As, Se and Sr in D. coriacea eggs were higher than previously reported for this species, which likely reflects differential contamination levels of specimens during foraging. The evaluation of non-carcinogenic human health risks from ingesting leatherback eggs has revealed potential deleterious effects due to high concentrations of As, Se and Sr for all examined age and gender groups, while Hg and Zn levels were above international standards for children. Hazard index (HI) values exceeded unity in all cases indicating serious health impacts related to possible additive effects of multiple metals co-occurring in the eggs. Our findings suggest that exposure to high (inorganic) As and Cr(VI) levels is associated with an increased carcinogenic risk, significantly exceeding the acceptable lifetime risk of 10(-6) for both adults and children. Despite some limitations, such as unclear As and Cr speciation, our results demonstrated that the ingestion of D. coriacea eggs poses considerable health risks to local communities, and their consumption should not exceed 3.4 x 10(-4) g (5.0 x 10(-6) eggs) kg BW d(-1). Resource managers and conservationists should focus their attention to human health effects as an alternative tool to address egg poaching and consumption. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Winter Flounder Pseudopleuronectes americanus, a coastal flatfish species of historically economic and cultural importance, have declined throughout the past few decades within the southern New England and mid-Atlantic region of the United States, reaching a low point of less than 9% of their historic biomass in 2009. Unusually high postsettlement mortality is thought to impose a critical recruitment bottleneck on the population, potentially stalling recovery of Winter Flounder populations despite management measures. Survival and growth during early life history play a key role in the recruitment dynamics of marine fishes. Spatiotemporal differences in these vital rates from young-of-the-year (i.e., age-0) Winter Flounder have been variously linked to environmental gradients, anthropogenic stressors, differences in the timing of settlement, and location. To better understand local declines in recruitment productivity, we assessed vital rates of age-0 Winter Flounder in five different bays in Long Island, New York. A weekly or biweekly beam-trawl survey targeting age-0 Winter Flounder was implemented over five summers. We compared survey-based estimates of age-0 mortality and growth, finding significant differences between locations in growth but not mortality. A consistently high abundance of age-0 Winter Flounder in Shinnecock Bay and Mattituck Creek was prolonged by a secondary settlement pulse later in the season. Hypothesizing that multiple settlement pulses are a bet-hedging strategy against temporally varying environmental conditions, we compared mortality, growth, and occupied habitat conditions between settlement pulses (cohorts), finding differences in growth and habitat occupancy that varied across years."	USA	Fisheries
"Author summaryRabies virus is the deadliest virus affecting mammals. In Brazil, rabies transmitted by the common marmoset primate is emerging and causing unpredictable human deaths. This primate once endemic to the northeast of the country has now invaded regions in the south throughout human-mediated introductions. However, the dynamics of rabies in this primate and the extend of spillover risk to humans remain unknown. We found that outbreaks of rabies in this marmoset reported to the Ministry of Health are continuously reported in new areas, including three new states since 2012 and three states reporting rabies originated from the common vampire bat. We also showed that this primate has suitable habitat to invade other states in the north and west of Brazil. Preventive strategies should be implemented to limit further rabies spillover to humans in new areas. Rabies transmitted by wildlife is now the main source of human rabies in the Americas. The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is considered a reservoir of rabies causing sporadic and unpredictable human deaths in Brazil, but the extent of the spillover risk to humans remains unknown. In this study, we described the spatiotemporal dynamics of rabies affecting C. jacchus reported to Brazil's Ministry of Health passive surveillance system between 2008 and 2020, and combined ecological niche modelling with C. jacchus occurrence data to predict its suitable habitat. Our results show that 67 outbreaks (91 cases) of rabies affecting C. jacchus were reported by 41 municipalities between January 2008 and October 2020, with a mean of 5 outbreaks/year [range: 1-14]. The maximum number of outbreaks and municipalities reporting cases occurred in 2018, coinciding with higher surveillance of primate deaths due to Yellow Fever. A mean of 3 [1-9] new municipalities reported outbreaks yearly, suggesting potential spatial expansions of the C. jacchus variant in northeastern Brazil and emerging rabies spillover from vampire bat Desmodus rotundus to C. jacchus in the north and south. Outbreaks were concentrated in the states of Ceara (72%) and Pernambuco (16%) up to 2012, but are now reported in Piaui since 2013, in Bahia since 2017 (D. rotundus' antigenic variant, AgV3) and in Rio de Janeiro since 2019 (AgV3). Besides confirming suitable habitat for this primate in the northeast and the east coast of Brazil, our Maximum Entropy model also predicted suitable habitat on the north and the west states of the country but predicted low habitat suitability among inland municipalities of the Caatinga biome reporting rabies. Our findings revealed new areas reporting rabies infecting C. jacchus, highlighting the need to implement strategies limiting spillover to humans and to better understand the drivers of C. jacchus rabies dynamics."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"We analyze recently collected feather tissues from two species of seabirds, the sooty tern (Onychoprion fuscatus) and brown noddy (Anus stolidus), in three ocean regions (North Atlantic, North Pacific, and South Pacific) with different human impacts. The species are similar morphologically and in the trophic levels from which they feed within each location. In contrast, we detect reliable differences in trophic position amongst the regions. Trophic position appears to decline as the intensity of commercial fishing increases, and is at its lowest in the Caribbean. The spatial gradient in trophic position we document in these regions exceeds those detected over specimens from the last 130 years in the Hawaiian Islands. Modeling suggests that climate velocity and human impacts on fish populations strongly align with these differences."	USA	Fisheries
"Research surveys provide the foundation for sound, effective management of fishery resources and are integral to observing fish population trends. However, bias in sampling gear and operating hours may confound observed shifts in species distributions over space and time. Within North Pacific waters off Alaska, Pacific cod (Gadus macrocephalus) support a large, commercial fishery and is an example of a species that experiences spatial and temporal shifts. Seasonal migratory shifts are difficult to incorporate into stock assessment models and are further complicated if research surveys do not effectively sample the underlying size distributions. In the Bering Sea, differences in median fish size between the winter Pacific cod bottom-trawl fishery (directed) and the summer research survey have been observed since the onset of the surveys in the 1980s (66 and 41 cm, respectively). Because of this, it has been suggested that large Pacific cod may not be available to the summer research survey for varying reasons. In this study, we compared standardized observations of mature Pacific cod length distributions from a summer multi-species fishery with the National Marine Fisheries Service summer research survey from 2009 to 2018 in the Bering Sea. Controlling for spatiotemporal effects, there was no difference detected in Pacific cod length distributions between the fishery and survey, suggesting that the survey accurately captures the entire size distribution of Pacific cod in the summer. Although standardized research surveys are considered to be representative samples of the entire population, using non-random fishery observations, where the fishery and survey spatiotemporally overlap, can validate survey observations and inform selectivity relationships in stock assessment models."	USA	Fisheries
"Photosynthesis-both oxygenic and more ancient anoxygenic forms-has fueled the bulk of primary productivity on Earth since it first evolved more than 3.4 billion years ago. However, the early evolutionary history of photosynthesis has been challenging to interpret due to the sparse, scattered distribution of metabolic pathways associated with photosynthesis, long timescales of evolution, and poor sampling of the true environmental diversity of photosynthetic bacteria. Here, we reconsider longstanding hypotheses for the evolutionary history of phototrophy by leveraging recent advances in metagenomic sequencing and phylogenetics to analyze relationships among phototrophic organisms and components of their photosynthesis pathways, including reaction centers and individual proteins and complexes involved in the multi-step synthesis of (bacterio)-chlorophyll pigments. We demonstrate that components of the photosynthetic apparatus have undergone extensive, independent histories of horizontal gene transfer. This suggests an evolutionary mode by which modular components of phototrophy are exchanged between diverse taxa in a piecemeal process that has led to biochemical innovation. We hypothesize that the evolution of extant anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria has been spurred by ecological competition and restricted niches following the evolution of oxygenic Cyanobacteria and the accumulation of O-2 in the atmosphere, leading to the relatively late evolution of bacteriochlorophyll pigments and the radiation of diverse crown group anoxygenic phototrophs. This hypothesis expands on the classic Granick hypothesis for the stepwise evolution of biochemical pathways, synthesizing recent expansion in our understanding of the diversity of phototrophic organisms as well as their evolving ecological context through Earth history."	USA	Ecology
"Among dichromatic avian species, the loss of sexual organs can induce reversal of sexual features among females and males. In particular, the phenotypic feminisation or masculinisation of males and females, respectively, has been linked to the presence of testosterone or luteinizing hormones. Specifically, females lacking a functional ovary (e.g. experience an ovariectomy) or males lacking testes have been found to exhibit male breeding plumage in subsequent moult cycles. We conducted post mortem examination on a wild Mallard Anas platyrhynchos, determined genetically as a female but displaying male plumage, and found that the ovary was missing despite the remaining sexual organs being intact. We concluded that this individual provided an example of spontaneous ovarian degeneration, and that its male-like plumage was attributable to a resulting lack of oestrogen in its body. Together, these results further establish that plumage expression is not strictly genetically based, but rather dictated by the ability for the timely expression or suppression of these genes via modifiers, begging the question of why both sexes retain the molecular variation required to express the male plumage."	USA	Genetics
"Ticks are commonly infected by Coxiella-like endosymbionts (Coxiella-LE) which are thought to supply missing B vitamin nutrients required for blood digestion.While this nutritional symbiosis is essential for the survival and reproduction of infected tick species, our knowledge of where Coxiella-LE is localized in tick tissues is partial at best since previous studies have focused on a limited number of Asian or American tick species. To fill this gap, we investigated the tissue localization of Coxiella-LE in three European tick species, Ornithodoros maritimus, Dermacentor marginatus and Ixodes hexagonus, using a diagnostic fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assay, combined with PCR-based detection. Specific fluorescent foci were observed in several tick tissues. We visualized a pronounced tissue tropism of Coxiella-LE for tick ovaries and Malpighian tubules, a pattern suggestive of a high degree of lifestyle specialization toward mutualism: infection of the ovaries is indicative of transovarial transmission, whereas infection of the Malpighian tubules suggests a nutritional function. We postulate that Malpighian tubules are key organs for the nutritional symbiosis, notably the synthesis of B vitamins by Coxiella-LE, whereas the infection of the ovaries ensures vertical transmission of the symbionts to future generations. We also detected occasional infections in other organs, such as salivary glands and the midgut. Finally, we discuss the potential significance of the different tissue tropism for tick biology."	NonUS	Ecology
"Quinqueloculina seminula (Linnaeus, 1758) is a common porcelaneous benthic foraminifer and plays a crucial role in biomonitoring assessment and palaeoenvironmental reconstruction. However, high morphological variability within the species and the long list of synonymy has resulted in confused taxonomy that to date remains unresolved. Moreover, the lack of clearly defined morpho-taxonomic criteria led to a great confusion concerning the discrimination of Quinqueloculine and Triloculine tests. This study provides the first ribosomal DNA sequences of Q. seminula complemented with the detailed morphological and ecological investigation, based on material collected from an intertidal region along the Rajapuri creek, Maharashtra coast, north-eastern Arabian Sea. By analysing the characteristic morphological features, i.e., number of chambers, and length: width ratio, the specimens were sorted into different morpho-groups viz. juvenile (resembling Triloculina) and the typical adult forms. The genetic analysis utilising partial small subunit ribosomal DNA (18S rDNA) showed that all morphotypes of Q. seminula from the studied site branches within a single clade significantly differ from the sequences of Q. seminulum, suggesting a putative novel adaptation to different ecological conditions. Our results are in contrast with the assumption that all ecophenotypes of Q. seminula represent a genetically continuous species with a unique habitat and widespread biogeographic distribution. Our environmental investigation further indicates that the species favours intertidal hypersaline conditions, and seasonal distribution pattern shows a positive correlation with the salinity and temperature."	NonUS	Genetics
"The recent emergence of bat-borne zoonotic viruses warrants vigilant surveillance in their natural hosts. Of particular concern is the family of coronaviruses, which includes the causative agents of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), and most recently, Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), an epidemic of acute respiratory illness originating from Wuhan, China in December 2019. Viral detection, discovery, and surveillance activities were undertaken in Myanmar to identify viruses in animals at high risk contact interfaces with people. Free-ranging bats were captured, and rectal and oral swabs and guano samples collected for coronaviral screening using broadly reactive consensus conventional polymerase chain reaction. Sequences from positives were compared to known coronaviruses. Three novel alphacoronaviruses, three novel betacoronaviruses, and one known alphacoronavirus previously identified in other southeast Asian countries were detected for the first time in bats in Myanmar. Ongoing land use change remains a prominent driver of zoonotic disease emergence in Myanmar, bringing humans into ever closer contact with wildlife, and justifying continued surveillance and vigilance at broad scales."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Managers and researchers have identified a reproducing population of grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) in the western basin of Lake Erie, generating concern over the potential threat to ecosystem function in the Great Lakes Basin. Capture histories indicate that grass carp may be present at low levels in other areas of Lake Erie, necessitating a large scale, multi-jurisdictional response. As a result, a group of experts and decision makers began a structured decision making exercise to collaboratively address the threat and identify potential response actions. To aid this process, we developed a spatially explicit periodic matrix population model to project grass carp abundance, and probabilistically evaluate specific management actions. We evaluated four potential management response actions ranging from no action, diffuse removal efforts, and concentrated removal efforts with and without a barrier on the Sandusky River to reduce spawning success. Based on our current knowledge, concentrated removal including a barrier on the Sandusky River provides the most likely path to achieving and maintaining a management target of no more than 10 fish/ha. Our understanding of grass carp ecology in Lake Erie is growing. This model and parameter development methods were designed to flexibly accommodate new information as our understanding of grass carp ecology evolves, or management objectives change. Ultimately, this modeling framework and use of Bayesian methods could facilitate management response efforts for other invasive species occurring over large scales and multiple jurisdictions. (C) 2020 International Association for Great Lakes Research. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	USA	Fisheries
"Echinoderms often play key roles in structuring marine ecosystems. The bat star Patiria miniata is an abundant echinoderm in the kelp forests of the northeastern Pacific coast whose trophic ecology has been understudied. Understanding the trophic role of P. miniata is important given the recent declines of many sea star populations due to wasting disease. Patiria miniata was largely unaffected by these outbreaks and could potentially fill the trophic niches left by other ecologically important sea star species. In this study, we used a combination of feeding experiments and stable isotope analysis to provide new insights into the trophic ecology of P. miniata. Given that P. miniata is considered an omnivorous generalist, we conducted a series of feeding experiments in which we quantified consumption rates for a wide range of reported prey items. Consumption rates were highest for different types of carrion, lower for sessile invertebrates, and negligible for all species of macrophytes. In a series of follow-up experiments, we found that food deprivation did not lead to demonstrable consumption of macrophytes by P. miniata, but that the presence of epiphytes significantly increased consumption rates (presumably of the epiphytes plus incidental consumption of macrophytes). Finally, we compared the isotopic niche of P. miniata with that of a carnivore (the giant sea star Pisaster giganteus), an herbivore (the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus), and a detritivore (the warty sea cucumber Parastichopus parvimensis) and found that P. miniata occupied the highest relative trophic level and was isotopically most similar to P. giganteus. Altogether, our results suggest that the diet of P. miniata is narrower and more carnivorous than previously expected."	USA	Ecology
"In the past few years, environmental DNA (eDNA) techniques have been used to monitor marine communities. Research indicates that eDNA is an effective tool for monitoring fishery resources. This study analyzed the seasonal variations in fish resources in the Yangtze Estuary, China, using eDNA. A total of 103 water samples were collected from the Yangtze Estuary across the four seasons in 2019-20 samples in February, 28 in May, 28 in August and 27 in November. Our research successfully detected the fishery resources of the Yangtze Estuary. We found significant differences according to the season. The results showed that 59 species were identified in 2019 (20 in February, 16 in May, 5 in August and 45 in November) and fish species varied widely over the four seasons. Furthermore, our samples revealed significant differences in annual fish stocks in the Yangtze Estuary, compared with eDNA data from 2018 and with traditional surveys from past years. Overall, eDNA is a useful emerging tool to assist with monitoring and protecting fish resources for the Yangtze Estuary."	NonUS	Technology
"The taxonomy of the extant dinoflagellate genus Gonyaulax is challenging since its thecate morphology is rather conservative. In contrast, cysts of Gonyaulax are varied in morphology and have been related with the fossil-based genera Spiniferites and Impagidinium. To better understand the systematics of Gonyaulax species, we performed germination experiments on cysts that can be identified as S. ristingensis, an unidentified Spiniferites with petaloid processes here described as Spiniferites pseudodelicatus sp. nov. and Impagidinium variaseptum from Chinese and Portuguese waters. Despite marked differences in cyst morphology, motile cells of S. pseudodelicatus and I. variaseptum are indistinguishable from Gonyaulax baltica. Motile cells hatched from S. ristingensis are morphologically similar to G. baltica as well but differ in the presence of one pronounced antapical spine. Three new species, Gonyaulax amoyensis (cyst equivalent S. pseudodelicatus), Gonyaulax bohaiensis (cyst equivalent I. variaseptum), and Gonyaulax portimonensis (cyst equivalent S. ristingensis), were erected. In addition, a new ribotype (B) of G. baltica was reported from South Korea and a bloom of G. baltica ribotype B is reported from New Zealand. Molecular phylogeny based on LSU and SSU rRNA gene sequences revealed that Gonyaulax species with minute or short antapical spines formed a well-resolved clade, whereas species with two pronounced antapical spines or lack of antapical spines formed the sister clade. Six strains of four above species were examined for yessotoxin production by liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry, and very low concentrations of yessotoxin were detected for one G. bohaiensis strain."	NonUS	Genetics
"Rising environmental temperatures associated with climate change can adversely affect sea turtles whose hatchling sex determination is temperature-dependent. One hypothetical response of sea turtles to near-future elevated temperatures is a shift in nesting distribution to maintain suitable thermal conditions. Assessing sea turtle responses to climate warming involves evaluating (1) how temperatures will be altered, (2) a species' capacity to respond to changes, and (3) whether responses can mitigate the impacts of warming. We evaluated sand temperatures across nesting habitat of the Critically Endangered Kemp's ridley sea turtle Lepidochelys kempii in the western Gulf of Mexico. Most nesting now occurs on a 30 km stretch of beach in Tamaulipas, Mexico, but was historically more widely distributed. Applying conservative projections, we assessed whether a shift in the epicenter of nesting to the northern extent of the present distribution would maintain incubation temperatures below lethal levels and suitable to produce hatchlings of both sexes. Coupling temperature measurements with known impacts of temperature on the reproductive physiology of L. kempii, we predict that northern beaches will initially support the production of mixed sex ratios. However, the rapid rate of warming and long generation time for L. kempii make a shift in nesting unlikely to ultimately mitigate the effects of elevated temperatures on hatchling sex ratios and mortality. The limited thermal profile of the restricted L. kempii nesting range, and temperature-dependent sex determination, make this sea turtle particularly vulnerable to climate change. This vulnerability provides the opportunity to gain insights on strategies for the survival of thermally sensitive species in a warming world."	USA	ClimateChange
"Atrina maura is a bivalve in the family Pinnidae and is the most important pen shell species fished in Mexico. To date, there is no information on the effects of reproductive activity and environmental variables on the biochemical constituents of the body tissues of this species. To fill this gap, we studied the reproductive cycle of A. maura monthly during 2015. Total carbohydrate, lipid, and protein content of the muscle, mantle, gonad, and digestive gland were measured. Sea surface temperature and chlorophyll a concentration were obtained, and the interannual differences were calculated. The results indicate that warmer temperatures, influenced by El Nino, and food scarcity, influenced by 'The Blob' event, affected the reproductive activity of A. maura. Females exhibited massive oocyte degeneration and shorter reproductive events with intermittent spawning peaks, while males spawned continuously throughout the year but without a maturation stage. The biochemical composition indicates that this population relies on protein metabolism, with no difference between sexes. Temperature had a negative effect on lipid production by the digestive gland in females, while in males, carbohydrate content in the mantle was negatively affected by temperature. Food scarcity was only correlated with lower carbohydrate content in the digestive gland of females. The mantle and the digestive gland exhibited an important role during reproductive activity as a physiological adaptation to unfavorable environmental conditions such as warmer temperatures and food scarcity."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Apes continue to be trafficked to meet the demand for pets or zoos. Indonesia, the most diverse country in terms of ape species, has been implicated in the global trade in gibbons, orangutans and, to a lesser degree, chimpanzees. Recently trade has shifted to online platforms, a trend that may have been amplified by the Covid-19 pandemic and partial lockdowns. We assessed the availability of legally protected apes for sale on Facebook and Instagram over two 16-months periods (2017-2018 and 2020-2021). Despite Facebook and Instagram explicitly banning the sale of endangered animals, and Facebook not allowing the sale of live animals, we found 106 gibbons, 17 orangutans and four chimpanzees for sale on five Facebook pages and 19 Instagram accounts. All orangutans and chimpanzees and 70% of the gibbons were infants or juveniles. We did not record any obvious responses of vendors to the Covid-19 pandemic. Facebook and Instagram accounts were linked (similar names, cross-referencing each other and announcing new accounts on existing ones), names were altered (e.g., petshop to pethsop) and new vendors emerged for short periods. Facebook and Instagram's policy of not allowing the sale of live and/or endangered wildlife on their platforms is not effectively implemented in Indonesia."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Lethal control is widely employed to suppress the numbers of target wildlife species within restricted management areas. The success of such measures is expected to vary with local circumstances affecting rates of removal and replacement. There is a need both to evaluate success in individual cases and to understand variability and its causes. In Britain, red fox (Vulpes vulpes) populations are culled within the confines of shooting estates to benefit game and wildlife prey species. We developed a Bayesian state-space model for within-year fox population dynamics within such restricted areas and fitted it to data on culling effort and success obtained from gamekeepers on 22 shooting estates of 2 to 36 km(2). We used informative priors for key population processes-immigration, cub recruitment and non-culling mortality-that could not be quantified in the field. Using simulated datasets we showed that the model reliably estimated fox density and demographic parameters, and we showed that conclusions drawn from real data were robust to alternative model assumptions. All estates achieved suppression of the fox population, with pre-breeding fox density on average 47% (range 20%-90%) of estimated carrying capacity. As expected, the number of foxes killed was a poor indicator of effectiveness. Estimated rates of immigration were variable among estates, but in most cases indicated rapid replacement of culled foxes so that intensive culling efforts were required to maintain low fox densities. Due to this short-term impact, control effort focussed on the spring and summer period may be essential to achieve management goals for prey species. During the critical March-July breeding period, mean fox densities on all estates were suppressed below carrying capacity, and some maintained consistently low fox densities throughout this period. A similar model will be useful in other situations to quantify the effectiveness of lethal control on restricted areas."	NonUS	Ecology
"With their ability to facultatively switch between filter-feeding modes, sei whales represent a functional and ecological intermediate in the transition between intermittent and continuous filter feeding. Morphologically resembling their lunge-feeding, rorqual relatives, sei whales have convergently evolved the ability to skim prey near the surface of the water, like the more distantly related balaenids. Because of their intermediate nature, understanding how sei whales switch between feeding behaviors may shed light on the rapid evolution and flexibility of filter-feeding strategies. We deployed multi-sensor bio-logging tags on two sei whales and measured the kinematics of feeding behaviors in this poorly understood and endangered species. To forage at the surface. sei whales used a unique combination of surface lunges and skim-feeding behaviors. The surface lunges were slow and stereotyped, and were unlike lunges performed by other rorqual species. The skim-feeding events featured a different filtration mechanism from the lunges and were kinematically different from the continuous filter feeding used by balaenids. While foraging below the surface, sei whales used faster and more variable lunges. The morphological characteristics that allow sei whales to effectively perform different feeding behaviors suggest that sei whales rapidly evolved their functionally intermediate and ecologically flexible form to compete with larger and more efficient rorqual species."	USA	Ecology
"Human-wildlife conflicts occur when wildlife has an adverse effect on human activities (e.g., predation of livestock, crop raiding). These conflicts are increasing, particularly in areas surrounding natural protected areas, where villagers engage in subsistence agriculture. Crop damage may cause farmers to retaliate and harm wildlife species considered responsible for the damage. Among the factors that determine the intensity of the conflict are the frequency of the damage and the amount of biomass consumed relative to the perceptions, values, and cultural history of the farmers affected. To better understand the conflicts between farmers and wildlife, we compared farmer perceptions of wildlife damage to corn (Zea mays) to damage estimates recorded from May to June 2016 in 2 communities located in southern Mexico adjacent to the Natural Protected Area of Agua Blanca. We identified 128 farmers who had reported previous damage and used an administered structured questionnaire to assess their perceptions of the magnitude of the damage. Over 70% of the farmers surveyed considered that wildlife incursions in crops are a problem and 18% of them had implemented hunting and poisoning as a control measure. Farmers attributed their losses mainly to white-nosed coati (Nasua narica) and northern raccoon (Procyon lotor). However, our field data indicated that birds were causing more damage. On average, each corn crop lost $30.80; this value may be considered low, but the farmers' dependence on the harvest they obtain from their crops causes these losses, added to those they already have due to other causes (i.e., long droughts, insect pests, and fungus), which impact their bottom line. Wildlife crop depredation is not the main cause of economic loss, but its impact negatively influences the perception of some farmers on wildlife. A poor perception in farmers could lead to an increase in the use of lethal methods, which may also affect nontargets."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Worldwide there is increasing concern for elasmobranch species given that their biological and ecological characteristics make them highly vulnerable to fishing pressure. The disappearance of these species could affect the structure and function of marine ecosystems, which would induce changes in trophic interactions at the community level. For effective conservation and management of elasmobranchs detailed knowledge of their habitat preferences is essential. Yet, there is a poor understanding of their spatial ecology. Isla del Coco National Park is an oceanic island in Pacific Costa Rica and renowned for being a sanctuary for migratory pelagic species, such as elasmobranchs and other non-migratory species. However, the abundance of many of these species has been rapidly declining over the last decades as a result of overexploitation (legal and illegal fishing). Within this context, Generalized Additive Models were performed to investigate the environmental preferences of eight elasmobranch species in Isla del Coco National Park using six predictors (i.e., sea surface temperature, salinity, chlorophyll-a concentration, bathymetry, distance from the coast and slope). Results demonstrate similar habitat preferences based on distance from the coast, slope and chlorophyll, which indicates that elasmobranchs prefer shallow waters near the island with varying degrees of slope. This study helps to identify both some of the hotspots for elasmobranchs biodiversity in Isla del Coco National Park. This approach provides an essential and relatively easy tool, such as predictive distribution maps, to increase our knowledge of marine habitats in Isla del Coco to better manage them and other offshore marine protected areas."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Reliable abundance estimates for species are fundamental in ecology, fisheries, and conservation. Consequently, predictive models able to provide reliable estimates for un- or poorly-surveyed locations would prove a valuable tool for management. Based on commonly used environmental and physical predictors, we developed predictive models of total fish abundance and of abundance by fish family for ten representative taxonomic families for the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) using multiple temporal scenarios. We then tested if models developed for the GBR (reference system) could predict fish abundances at Ningaloo Reef (NR; target system), i.e., if these GBR models could be successfully transferred to NR. Models of abundance by fish family resulted in improved performance (e.g., 44.1 % < R-2 < 50.6% for Acanthuridae) compared to total fish abundance (9% < R-2 < 18.6%). However, in contrast with previous transferability obtained for similar models for fish species richness from the GBR to NR, transferability for these fish abundance models was poor. When compared with observations of fish abundance collected in NR, our transferability results had low validation scores (R-2 < 6%, p > 0.05). High spatio-temporal variability of patterns in fish abundance at the family and population levels in both reef systems likely affected the transferability of these models. Inclusion of additional predictors with potential direct effects on abundance, such as local fishing effort or topographic complexity, may improve transferability of fist local-scale predictors are often not abundance models. However, observations of these available, and might thereby hinder studies on model transferability and its usefulness for conservation planning and management."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate synthetases (EC 2.7.6.1) are key enzymes in the biological synthesis of phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate and are involved in diverse developmental processes. In our previous study, the PRPS1 gene was discovered as a key disease-resistance candidate gene in yellow drum, Nibea albiflora, in response to the infection of Vibrio harveyi, through genome-wide association analysis. This study mainly focused on the characteristics and its roles in immune responses of the PRPS1 gene in yellow drum. In the present study, the NaPRPS1 gene was cloned from yellow drum, encoding a protein of 320 amino acids. Bioinformatic analysis showed that NaPRPS1 was highly conserved during evolution. Quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated that NaPRPS1 was highly expressed in the head-kidney and brain, and its transcription and translation were significantly activated by V. harveyi infection examined by RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry analysis, respectively. Subcellular localization revealed that NaPRPS1 was localized in cytoplasm. In addition, semi-in vivo pull-down assay coupled with mass spectrometry identified myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) as an NaPRPS1-interacting patterner, and their interaction was further supported by reciprocal pull-down assay and co-immunoprecipitation. The inducible expression of MyD88 by V. harveyi suggested that the linker molecule MyD88 in innate immune response may play together with NaPRPS1 to coordinate the immune signaling in yellow drum in response to the pathogenic infection. We provide new insights into important functions of PRPS1, especially PRPS1 in the innate immunity of teleost fishes, which will benefit the development of marine fish aquaculture."	NonUS	Genetics
"The ecological security of global marine fishery is facing severe threat. Overfishing and pollution contributes to drastic declines in sustainable fishing yields and generally curtails the ecological resilience of marine systems. However, marine fishery ecological system provides an essential source of sustenance and economic livelihood for populations throughout the world, and is considered the backbone of global food and nutrition security. Thus, sustaining marine fishery ecological security is essential for the future of economic and food security. This study used the modified ecological footprint model and Tapio elastic decoupling model to further research the spatial-temporal variation characteristics of marine fishery ecological footprint (EF) and the decoupling effects related to the fishery economy from 2010 to 2019 of 11 coastal provinces in China. The results showed that marine fishery EF from 2010 to 2019 of 11 coastal provinces in China increased in a fluctuating manner. The differences of spatial distribution pattern expanded, and polarization was prominent. The biocapacities (BC) of marine fishery were consistently stable overall, and those of the southern provinces were slightly better than those in the northern provinces. Spatial distribution pattern changed from relative dispersion to gradual concentration. Ecological deficit (ED) was continuously exacerbated in marine fishery, represented by the spatial expansion. Decoupling effects between the marine fishery EF and fishery economy in China were mainly subjected to weak decoupling, strong decoupling, and expansive negative decoupling status. Additionally, combined with the prediction analysis of ARIMA model and GM(1,1) model, the marine fishery EF in China will increase overall in the future five years. The ecological security situation of marine fishery is extremely serious. These research findings provide profound significance for marine fishery sustainable development in China as well as for the coastal areas in other countries and serve as an important reference for the ecological security governance of global marine fishery."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Mustelus mustelus from the Langebaan Marine Protected Area (LMPA) has been largely protected from fishing activities for the past 30 years; therefore, its biology represents those of an unfished stock. The reproductive biology, diet, growth and maturity of M. mustelus was studied in the Langebaan Lagoon region in the south-western Cape Coast of South Africa between 2007 and 2009. In total, 217 sharks (females: 381-1734 mm total length (TL); males: 467-1267 mm TL) were examined. Sharks in the Bay represented the largest specimens among six regions, globally. Female parturition, ovulating and mating occurred between November and December after a gestation period of 10-11 months. No ontogenetic shift in diet was evident, with the diet predominantly consisting of the following three species of crustaceans; Hymenosoma orbiculare, Upogebia africana and Callichirus kraussi. The von Bertalanffy growth parameters for combined sexes were L-infinity = 1594 mm TL, k = 0.15 year(-1), t(0) = -2.01 year (n = 95). Possible age over-estimation was investigated using micro-computed tomography, which highlighted the existence of false check marks. This study indicated that the LMPA represents a pupping, nursery and feeding ground as well as a refuge area for the largest and oldest recorded smoothhound sharks globally, emphasising its importance in spatial conservation of this species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Among the various pollutants released into the environment, there are persistent organic pollutants (POPs). Chelonia mydas are one of the species that can be exposed to these pollutants and it is classified in the IUCN Red List as endangered. The present study evaluated the occurrence of POPs in 49liver tissue samples of C. mydas juveniles collected on the southeastern Brazilian coast. Furthermore, the concentrations were correlated with carbon and nitrogen isotopic ratio, biometrics, and ecological factors. The main POPs found were (sic)-HCH and PCBs. Overall, the concentrations found were low and there were no significant correlations among POPs, isotopic ratios, size and weight, which may be related to the fact that the studied individuals are juveniles and occupy similar trophic positions despite the individual variations found. Despite the low concentrations, the presence of POPs, mainly PCBs, in the sea turtles' liver indicates their exposure to these compounds."	NonUS	Ecology
"Spatial relationships between predators and prey provide critical information for understanding and predicting climate-induced shifts in ecosystem dynamics and mitigating human impacts. We used Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary as a case study to investigate spatial overlap among sand lance (Ammodytes dubius), a key forage fish species, and two protected predators: humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) and great shearwaters (Ardenna gravis). We conducted 6 years (2013-2018) of standardized surveys and quantified spatial overlap using the global index of collocation. Results showed strong, consistent collocation among species across seasons and years, suggesting that humpback whales and great shearwater distributions are tightly linked to sand lance. We propose that identifying sand lance habitats may indicate areas where humpbacks and shearwaters aggregate and are particularly vulnerable to human activities. Understanding how sand lance influence predator distributions can inform species protection and sanctuary management under present and future scenarios."	USA	Ecology
"The metabolic activities of cable bacteria enable the oxidation of sulfide to sulfate in anoxic sediment at depth through long distance electron transport coupled to the reductions of O-2 and NO3-/NO2- in surface sediment. The spatial separation of oxidation and reduction half reactions requires modification of diagenetic models that assume electron donors and acceptors are coupled with each other locally within sedimentary deposits. In this study, we show that cable bacteria can become established and remain metabolically active in sulfidic, but Fe, Mn, and solid phase sulfide-depleted, carbonate muds from Florida Bay, USA. Sediment surface pH maxima reflecting electrogenic metabolism developed between 1 and 3 weeks in sediment incubated in laboratory microcosms with oxic overlying water. Cable filament cell abundances varied over time, with the increase initially focused within the subsurface, but by the end of experiments, cell abundances increased both in subsurface and oxic surface sediment. The development of cable bacteria activity in carbonate muds demonstrates that long-distance electron transport metabolism can utilize subsurface dissolved sulfide (e.g., H2S) as a sole reductant source for sustained periods without transition to Fe-sulfide and apparently without formation of an intermediate suboxic region associated with Fe and Mn cycling. H2S consumption occurs initially within the O-2-NO3- rich oxic - suboxic zone and transitions to a dominant, but not exclusive, subsurface cable bacteria anodic zone. Once established, cable bacteria significantly altered sediment carbonate cycling. Thermodynamic calculations demonstrated that aragonite and hi-Mg-calcites were supersaturated (Omega similar to 2.0-3.2) in the surface sediment layer (< 0.25 cm depth) and were undersaturated (Omega similar to 0.2) in the anodic zone (1-2 cm depth). Hi-Mg-calcites and aragonite likely precipitated in the surface sediment and dissolved in the anodic region, the dissolution confirmed by elevated porewater Ca2+, Mg2+ concentrations. P cycling was coupled to remineralization of organic matter, carbonate mineral cycling, and apparently intracellular accumulation of polyphosphates. Thus, cable bacteria may play an important role in the acquisition of P by seagrasses in carbonate deposits where P is otherwise limited by irreversible adsorption and authigenic mineral precipitation."	USA	Ecology
"Polar cod (Boreogadus saida) is a key forage fish in the Arctic marine ecosystem and provides an energetic link between lower and upper trophic levels. Despite its ecological importance, spatially explicit studies synthesizing polar cod distributions across research efforts have not previously been conducted in its Pacific range. We used spatial generalized additive models to map the distribution of polar cod by size class and relative to environmental variables. We compiled demersal trawl data from 21 cruises conducted during 2004-2017 in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas, and investigated size-specific patterns in distribution to infer movement ecology of polar cod as it develops from juvenile to adult life stages. High abundances of juvenile polar cod (<= 70 mm) in the northeastern Chukchi Sea and western Beaufort Sea were separated from another region of high abundance in the eastern Beaufort Sea, near the US and Canadian border, suggesting possible population structure in the Pacific Arctic. Relating environmental correlates to polar cod abundance demonstrated that temperature and salinity were related to juvenile distribution patterns, while depth was the primary correlate of adult distribution. A comparison of seasonal 2017 abundances of polar cod in the southern Chukchi Sea found low demersal abundance in the spring when compared to the summer. Seasonal differences in polar cod abundance suggest that polar cod migration may follow a classical 'migration triangle' route between nursery grounds as juveniles, feeding grounds as subadults, and spawning grounds as adults, in relation to ice cover and seasonal production in the Chukchi Sea."	USA	Ecology
"We investigated the colonization dynamics of different microplastic (MP) pellets, namely, polyethylene (PE), polyethylene tcrephthalate (PET), polystyrene (PS), polypropylene (PP) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), either pristine or contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), by an organohalide respiring marine microbial community and its biotransformation activity towards PCBs sorbed on MPs, in anaerobic laboratory microcosms of a marine sediment. All MPs were rapidly colonized by the microbial community within 2 weeks of incubation, when approximately 10(10) 16S rRNA gene copies cm(-2) were detected on PVC, 10(9) copies cm(-2) on PE, and 10(8) copies cm(-2) on PET, PP and PS. A greater biofilm growth on PVC pellets than other MPs was confirmed by quantification of the reducing sugars of the EPS and biofilm staining with crystal violet. Illumina sequencing of the 16S rRNA genes and Principal Coordinate Analysis (PCoA) revealed that the biofilm community on MPs significantly differed from the sediment community, being enriched of chemoorganotrophic fermenting species, and was significantly affected by the type of polymer. The presence of sorbed PCBs did not significantly affect the overall community composition, and mainly resulted in the enrichment of Dehalococcoidia, i.e., of the organohalide respiring members of the community. Reductive dechlorination of PCBs sorbed to MPs was observed after 2 weeks of incubation, when the average number of chlorines per biphenyl molecule was reduced from 5.2 to 4.8-4.3, and was faster (35.2 +/- 1.9 to 61.2 +/- 5.8 mu mol of Cl removed kg(MP)(-1) week(-1))( )than that of sediment-sorbed ones (33.9 +/- 9.1 mu mol of Cl removed kg(sediment)(-1) week(-1)), which started only after 10 weeks of incubation. These data suggest that microbial colonization of contaminated MPs might change the composition of sorbed PCB mixtures and therefore the toxicity associated to PCB-polluted MPs. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"The Guadalupe Murrelet (GUMU) Synthliboramphus hypoleucus is the rarest alcid in the world (< 5 000 pairs), with regular breeding documented only at Islas Guadalupe (hereafter, Guadalupe) and San Benito off the west-central coast of Baja California, Mexico. GUMU were discovered at Guadalupe in 1892, but by then feral cats Felis catus had already devastated the population and limited most nesting to predator-free islets just offshore. Despite its status as the only major GUMU breeding island, the population at Guadalupe was never adequately surveyed during the 20th century. In March-April 2007, we used survey techniques developed specifically for Synthliboramphus murrelets to assess the status and distribution of GUMU at Guadalupe. We counted 1 511 GUMU during spotlight surveys in waters around the island. GUMU were abundant near the islets, but they were also relatively numerous near suitable breeding habitats off the north and south coasts of Guadalupe proper. Searches on four islets yielded 93 nests, most at Islotes Zapato (66; 71%) and Morro Prieto (21; 23%), where scores of abandoned eggs indicated intense competition for nests. We found seven nests on Guadalupe proper, the first proof of breeding there since 1950, but we also found 68 carcasses that confirmed significant predation by cats and raptors. A spotlight survey correction factor yielded 2 418 breeding pairs (95% confidence interval = 1 662-4 367) at Guadalupe and its islets, which accounted for similar to 90% of the world breeding population (1 822-4 789 pairs). About 1150-1 750 pairs were estimated on Islotes Zapato and Morro Prieto in 1968, but comparable data were lacking to assess historical or recent changes in population size. Basic studies of GUMU biology have only recently been initiated and should be a continuing priority. Recent conservation actions have benefited the native biota of Guadalupe, but further measures, such as localized rodent control and robust biosecurity on the islets, should be considered to mitigate serious threats to the vulnerable GUMU population and other seabirds."	USA	Biodiversity
"Estimating spatial and temporal resource use and partitioning among carnivore species varies based on life history and is critical to understanding ecological relationships of sympatric carnivores and their prey. Temporal variation in food availability can have a substantial influence on distribution, foraging behavior, prey selection, and population dynamics of carnivores. We investigated shifts in space use of black bears (Ursus americanus), bobcats (Lynx rufus), coyotes (Canis latrans), and gray wolves (C. lupus) in response to seasonal availability of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns in Michigan, USA, May-August 2009-2011. We used generalized linear mixed models to identify whether probabilistic fawn space use resulted in shifts in carnivore space use from deer pre-parturition (PPP, 1 May-24 May) to fawn limited mobility (LMP, 25 May-30 June) and social mobility (SMP, 1 July-31 August) periods. We developed a rule-based algorithm to identify clusters of carnivore GPS locations and investigated carnivore clusters to identify fawn predation sites. Carnivores shifted space use among periods, but responses varied among species regarding fawn space use. Black bears selected against areas with greater fawn use during LMP and selected areas with greater fawn use during SMP. We suggest black bear space use was unrelated to fawn space use and reflected availability of vegetative forage. Bobcats selected areas with greater fawn use during LMP and SMP. Coyotes were indifferent to areas where fawns occurred during LMP but selected against areas with greater fawn use during SMP, likely foraging on alternative prey. Coyotes were spatially constrained by wolves, selecting against areas with greater wolf use during LMP and SMP. Wolves selected against areas with greater fawn use during LMP and SMP and selected areas near habitat edges and areas containing livestock carcasses. Carnivore responses to fawn white-tailed deer distribution and vulnerability were congruent with life history strategies, resulting in space use shifts in response to temporarily abundant resources. Carnivores did not overall rely predominantly on fawns, likely shifting their space use to maximize intake of other seasonal resources. These events provide additional insight into life history strategies among co-occurring species and dynamics of multi-species predator-prey systems."	USA	Ecology
"Diatoms are often considered to be a single functional group, yet there is a great deal of morphological, genetic and ecological diversity within the class. How these differences will translate into species-specific responses to rapid changes in the ocean environment resulting from climate change and eutrophication is currently poorly understood. We investigated the response of a natural diatom-dominated assemblage in coastal California waters to interactions between the variables nitrogen source (nitrate and urea), temperature (19 and 23 degrees C) and CO2 (380 and 800 ppm) in a factorial experimental matrix using continuous culture (ecostat) methods. The community included diatoms of the cosmopolitan genera Pseudo-nitzschia and Chaetoceros, as well as Leptocylindrus and Cylindrotheca. Our results demonstrate strong interactive effects of these variables on community composition; notably, nitrogen source alone and nitrogen and CO2 together had a much greater influence on diatom community structure at 23 degrees C compared with 19 degrees C. In addition, warming and acidification interactions significantly increased cellular quotas of the neurotoxin domoic acid produced by Pseudo-nitzschia multiseries. In general, the effects observed for the factors tested differed significantly between the various diatom genera in this assemblage, suggesting potentially divergent responses of some of these ecologically and biogeochemically important phytoplankton taxa to interactions between global-scale and local-scale anthropogenic stressors in a changing ocean."	USA	Ecology
"The zooplankter Calanus finmarchicus is a member of the so-called Calanus Complex, a group of copepods that constitutes a key element of the Arctic polar marine ecosystem, providing a crucial link between primary production and higher trophic levels. Climate change induces the shift of C. finmarchicus to higher latitudes with currently unknown impacts on its endogenous timing. Here we generated a daily transcriptome of C. finmarchicus at two high Arctic stations, during the more extreme time of Midnight Sun, the summer solstice. While the southern station (74.5 degrees N) was sea ice-free, the northern one (82.5 degrees N) was sea ice-covered. The mRNAs of the 42 samples have been sequenced with an average of 126 +/- 5 million reads (mean +/- SE) per sample, and aligned to the reference transcriptome. We detail the quality assessment of the datasets and the complete annotation procedure, providing the possibility to investigate daily gene expression of this ecologically important species at high Arctic latitudes, and to compare gene expression according to latitude and sea ice-coverage."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Background: The importance of transposable elements (TEs) in the genomic remodeling and chromosomal rearrangements that accompany lineage diversification in vertebrates remains the subject of debate. The major impediment to understanding the roles of TEs in genome evolution is the lack of comparative and integrative analyses on complete taxonomic groups. To help overcome this problem, we have focused on the Antarctic teleost genus Trematomus (Notothenioidei: Nototheniidae), as they experienced rapid speciation accompanied by dramatic chromosomal diversity. Here we apply a multi-strategy approach to determine the role of large-scale TE mobilization in chromosomal diversification within Trematomus species. Results: Despite the extensive chromosomal rearrangements observed in Trematomus species, our measurements revealed strong interspecific genome size conservation. After identifying the DIRS1, Gypsy and Copia retrotransposon superfamilies in genomes of 13 nototheniid species, we evaluated their diversity, abundance (copy numbers) and chromosomal distribution. Four families of DIRS1, nine of Gypsy, and two of Copia were highly conserved in these genomes; DIRS1 being the most represented within Trematomus genomes. Fluorescence in situ hybridization mapping showed preferential accumulation of DIRS1 in centromeric and pericentromeric regions, both in Trematomus and other nototheniid species, but not in outgroups: species of the Sub-Antarctic notothenioid families Bovichtidae and Eleginopsidae, and the non-notothenioid family Percidae. Conclusions: In contrast to the outgroups, High-Antarctic notothenioid species, including the genus Trematomus, were subjected to strong environmental stresses involving repeated bouts of warming above the freezing point of seawater and cooling to sub-zero temperatures on the Antarctic continental shelf during the past 40 millions of years (My). As a consequence of these repetitive environmental changes, including thermal shocks; a breakdown of epigenetic regulation that normally represses TE activity may have led to sequential waves of TE activation within their genomes. The predominance of DIRS1 in Trematomus species, their transposition mechanism, and their strategic location in hot spots of insertion on chromosomes are likely to have facilitated nonhomologous recombination, thereby increasing genomic rearrangements. The resulting centric and tandem fusions and fissions would favor the rapid lineage diversification, characteristic of the nototheniid adaptive radiation."	NonUS	Genetics
"The lack of data on population abundance, biomass and basic biological parameters of most of the sea cucumber species from Indian waters is a fundamental barrier to impose suitable management measures on these resources. A study was conducted to ascertain the sea cucumber population characteristics in two geographically distinct ecosystems (Gulf of Mannar and Palk Bay) along the south-east coast of India. The stock status of sea cucumber population was assessed both by trawl and dive surveys following standard methods on a random basis. Comparatively, a higher average density of total sea cucumbers was estimated in the Gulf of Mannar (3853 +/- 152.3 nos. ha(-1)) than in Palk Bay (2428.5 +/- 504.6 nos. ha(-1)). The species diversity, average length and weight of individual species were also higher in the Gulf of Mannar. The present study indicated significant variation in status and structure of sea cucumber resources in these two ecosystems. Hence the study warrants the emphasis of ecosystem-based management in formulating conservation measures of these resources in Indian waters."	NonUS	Conservation
"Recent environmental regulations have urged refiners to decrease NOx emissions related to fuels particularly used in marine transportation. To this, hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) of Iranian Vacuum Bottom (IVB), as one of the most abundant but problematic effluents of Iranian refineries used for marine applications, was evaluated for the very first time via batch hydrotreating procedure over a commercial NiMo catalyst. First, the feed material's physicochemical properties were fully analyzed using several analytic techniques such as CHNS, micro-carbon residue, and TGA. Process chemistry of the HDN and mild hydrocracking (MHC) processes was studied systematically following an L-9-assisted design of experiment (Taguchi method) whereby temperature (350-410 degrees C), reaction time (1-3 h), oil content:catalyst ratio (1.5-2.5), and H-2 initial pressure (3.0-7.0 MPa) were considered as control factors. Adding to the highly pre-pressurized medium (H-2 initial pressure of 7.0 MPa) at elevated temperature (410 degrees C) as the most favorable condition for HDN and MHC reactions, results also highlighted a few critical interactions between the operating variables. The key was simultaneous saturation and decomposition of the highly aromatic nature of IVB, under which 65.3% of nitrogen impurities were taken out of the feed's recalcitrant network. Notably, we took advantage of some well-known analytic techniques like Sim Dis and GC-MS to shed light on the origin of the N-containing compounds in the feed material and physicochemical characteristics of liquid products. These fuel-related analyses provided us a deeper look into the process chemistry using thermodynamic and kinetic backgrounds."	NonUS	Technology
"The majority of the world's population now lives in cities, where reduced levels of native biodiversity, coupled with fewer opportunities for people to experience nature, are expected to result in an urban public increasingly disconnected from the natural environment. Residential gardens have great potential to both support native species and allow people daily contact with nature. Embracing the epistemological assumption that urban residents' interactions with nature in their gardens and parks may be complex, unpredictable, contradictory, and context-dependent, we used an interpretative phenomenological analysis approach to explore the human relationship with urban nature in a New Zealand city. We conducted 21 semi-structured go-along interviews to facilitate a deeper understanding of participants' personal experiences of nature in parks and gardens. Interviews revealed a tension between stated values and concrete actions affecting urban biodiversity in private gardens. This value-action gap stemmed from the multiple purposes and values that people hold for their gardens, which do not necessarily align with conservation of native nature. By recognizing that urban residents hold multiple values and want their gardens to fulfill multiple purposes, local authorities aiming to promote nature conservation in cities can design wildlife gardening programs that meet these multiple needs and reconcile conflicting priorities."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"The proliferation and dispersion of marine debris results with various, often harmful, interactions with marine fauna. One such interaction, that is poorly investigated, is the incorporation of marine debris into the nests of seabirds, which at times results in hatchling entanglement. The objective of this study is to investigate the qualitative and quantitative aspects of marine debris used in the construction of the nests of sooty gulls Larus (Adelarus) hemprichii (Bruch, 1853) from Sir Bu Na'ir Island, United Arab Emirates. The numeric and gravimetric proportions of debris were documented following classification of type, color and presumed source. The results show that 11.2% of the 258 active nests examined contained debris. On average, nests included 2.0 +/- 0.4 items of 6.1 +/- 1.9 g mass. Non-plastic rubbish, particularly metals and glass, were the predominant debris utilized. The results reflect that sooty gulls frequently use anthropogenic debris as nesting materials in Sir Bu Na'ir Island."	NonUS	Ecology
"Overfishing, pollution and global changes threaten reef ecosystems all over the world and several conservation actions emerged to reduce and mitigate such impacts. Citizen-based programs with hands-on conservation experience and voluntarily data collection are a successful way of involving society in the conservation process. We developed and tested a citizen-based monitoring protocol to monitor reef fish and sea turtles during regular recreational diving operations, with minimum impact on the routine of the diving company. We compared data collected by volunteer divers and by trained scientists using this protocol, and assessed the influence of the volunteersdiving experience in data collection. We found that recreational divers were able to record all the species included in the monitoring slate, providing estimates of species abundance and composition that did not differ from those obtained by trained scientific divers using the same protocol. This method also recorded large reef species, such as rays, sharks and turtles more effectively in comparison to traditional scientific surveys conducted in the same area. Such difference indicates complementarity between the citizen-based monitoring protocol and traditional scientific monitoring methods. The diving experience of recreational divers did not affect their ability to characterize reef assemblages and most volunteers provided a positive feedback of their experience as citizen-scientists. Therefore, recreational divers can be powerful citizen-scientists and implementing similar monitoring protocols in reef areas, particularly in marine protected areas where diving activities are allowed and regulated, seems feasible and a good way to engage divers in data collection and marine conservation. (C) 2019 Associacao Brasileira de Ciencia Ecologica e Conservacao. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Training undergraduate fisheries and wildlife students in human dimensions (HD) can prepare them to be part of interdisciplinary teams and apply human dimensions in their careers. We assessed the state of undergraduate HD coursework in the United States for the first time since 2001. The previous survey-based study found approximately 40% of responding universities with fisheries and wildlife degrees offered a stand-alone HD course. We analyzed degree requirements on websites of 37 members of the National Association of University Fisheries and Wildlife Programs. Two-thirds offer a stand-alone HD course; others offer at least one HD-type course in a single social science or humanities discipline. Of 244 HD-type classes, public affairs courses were most common, followed by economics. While we find growth in HD coursework, there are very few HD concentrations or certificates and no majors or minors within fisheries and wildlife units."	USA	HumanWildlife
"The detection of prions is difficult due to the peculiarity of the pathogen, which is a misfolded form of a normal protein. The specificity and sensitivity of detection methods are imperfect in complex samples, including in excreta. Here, we combined optimized prion amplification procedures with a statistical method that accounts for false-positive and false-negative errors to test deer saliva for chronic wasting disease (CWD) prions. This approach enabled us to discriminate the shedding of prions in saliva and the detection of prions in saliva-a distinction crucial to understanding the role of prion shedding in disease transmission and for diagnosis. We found that assay sensitivity and specificity were indeed imperfect, and we were able to draw several conclusions pertinent to CWD biology from our analyses: (i) the shedding of prions in saliva increases with time postinoculation, but is common throughout the preclinical phase of disease; (ii) the shedding propensity is influenced neither by sex nor by prion protein genotype at codon 96; and (iii) the source of prion-containing inoculum used to infect deer affects the likelihood of prion shedding in saliva; oral inoculation of deer with CWD-positive saliva resulted in 2.77 times the likelihood of prion shedding in saliva compared to that from inoculation with CWD-positive brain. These results are pertinent to horizontal CWD transmission in wild cervids. Moreover, the approach described is applicable to other diagnostic assays with imperfect detection."	USA	Health
"Due to considerable global decline in wildlife population numbers and species diversity, because of various anthropogenic activities, conservationists increasingly rely on captive and managed populations as important reservoirs to ensure the survival of endangered and vulnerable species. However, very few of these facilities implement robust, non-invasive monitoring techniques to confirm the effectiveness of their management practices to address animal welfare challenges. This study assessed adrenocortical activity as an indication of environmental stress by investigating the effects of both natural (climate, life-history stages) and anthropogenic (visitor presence) factors on captive-housed African penguins. Seven male-female African penguin breeding pairs were housed in a large, naturalistic outside enclosure at the National Zoological Garden (NZG), South Africa. Weekly urofaecal samples were collected from all individuals over one-year to measure urofaecal glucocorticoid metabolite (ufGCM) concentrations. General linear mixed model analysis determined that visitor presence (for males) and rainfall (for females) were the two factors which best explained the variation in ufGCM concentrations of the study population; however, none of the environmental and anthropogenic factors monitored were found to be significant. A posthoc graphical analysis showed considerable individual variation in terms of ufGCM concentrations within and between sexes when comparing life-history stages. This study confirms that non-invasive steroid monitoring can be an effective tool set for defining and assessing environmental stressors for African penguins and potentially other captive seabirds. However, conservationists and wildlife managers should also consider that individual-, sex-, and population-specific differences in the response to environmental stressors can exist. As such, a generalized management protocol for a specific species may not be sufficient and should be customized according to the specific captive population and/or individual."	NonUS	Conservation
"In monogamous mating systems, pair mates frequently share similar characteristics, such as size or ornamentation, a pattern suggesting mutual mate choice. When pairs persist across multiple seasons, preferences for familiar pair mates can either reinforce or disrupt patterns of assortative pairing. Snapping shrimp (Alpheus angulosus) are socially monogamous shrimp that can be found in size-assortative pairs year-round; both sexes could benefit from pairing with larger individuals. To determine the role of pair mate preferences for either size or established pair mates in size-assortative pairing, we performed simultaneous choice trials to test whether (1) either or both sexes prefer larger pair mates, (2) females prefer males with larger claws, or (3) either or both sexes prefer current pair mates over size-matched unfamiliar potential mates. Males, but not females, preferred larger potential pair mates in both the reproductive and nonreproductive seasons; males also showed more mate-searching behaviour, switching more frequently between choice options than females. Females, but not males, preferred their current pair mate over a novel potential pair mate; females also engaged in more frequent switching between pair mates and novel males, but only during the nonreproductive season. Thus, while both males and females exhibit preferences in pairing, size-assortative pairing in snapping shrimp does not result from mutual mate choice for size, but rather preferences for size in one sex, with size-assortative pairing reinforced by preferences for established pair mates in the other. Furthermore, pairing behaviour may be dynamic, shifting across seasons even in a year-round socially monogamous species. (C) 2019 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	USA	Ecology
"Identification of genetic structure within wildlife populations have implications in their conservation and management. Accurately inferring population genetic structure requires whole-genome data across the geographical range of the species, which can be resource-intensive. A cheaper strategy is to employ a subset of markers that can efficiently recapitulate the population genetic structure inferred by the whole genome data. Such ancestry informative markers (AIMs), have rarely been developed for endangered species such as tigers utilizing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Here, we first identify the population structure of the Indian tiger using whole-genome sequences and then develop an AIMs panel with a minimum number of SNPs that can recapitulate this structure. We identified four population clusters of Indian tigers with North-East, North-West, and South Indian tigers forming three separate groups, and Terai and Central Indian tigers forming a single cluster. To evaluate the robustness of our AIMs, we applied it to a separate dataset of tigers from across India. Out of 92 SNPs present in our AIMs panel, 49 were present in the new dataset. These 49 SNPs were sufficient to recapitulate the population genetic structure obtained from the whole genome data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first-ever SNP-based AIMs panel for big cats, which can be used as a cost-effective alternative to whole-genome sequencing for detecting the biogeographical origin of Indian tigers. Our study can be used as a guideline for developing an AIMs panel for the management of other endangered species where obtaining whole genome sequences are difficult."	NonUS	Genetics
"The BMP2 signal transduced by SMAD1/5 plays an important role in osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. Shell formation of Pinctada fucata martensii is a typical biomineralization process that is similar to that of teeth/bone formation. However, whether the Pinctada fucata BMP2 (PfBMP2) signal transduced by PfSMAD1/5 occurs in P. f. martensii, how the PfBMP2 signal is transduced by PfSMAD1/5, and how PfSMAD1/5 regulates the biomineralization process in this species and other shellfish are poorly understood. Therefore, injection experiments of recombinant PfBMP2 and inhibitor dorsomorphin revealed that PfSMAD1/5 can transduce PfBMP2 signals. Subcellular localization and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays indicated that PfSMAD1/5 phosphorylated by PfBMPR1b interacts with PfSMAD4 in the cytoplasm to form a complex, which translocates to the nucleus to transduce PfBMP2 signals. Co-immunoprecipitation and luciferase assays revealed that PfSMAD1/5 may interact with PfMSX to dislodge it from its binding element, resulting in initiation of mantle gene transcription. The in vivo functional assay showed that knockdown of PfMSAD1/5 decreased expression of shell matrix genes and disordered the nacreous layer, and the correlation assay of shell regeneration showed the concomitant expression pattern of PfSMAD1/5 and shell matrix genes. Together, these data showed that PfSMAD1/5 can transduce PfBMP2 signals to regulate shell biomineralization in P. f. martensii, which illustrated conservation of the BMP2-SMAD signal pathway among invertebrates. Particularly, the results suggest that there is only one PfMSX gene, which functions like the Hox gene in vertebrates, that interacts with PfSMAD1/5 in a protein-protein action form and plays the role of transcription repressor."	NonUS	Genetics
"Deforestation is an alarming issue that is prolific throughout world forests. Endemic fauna, flora, and wildlife habitat loss are serious concerns for world heritage. That is why Goal 15 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) promotes the conserved use of these natural resources. Sabah, Malaysia is fortunate to have Orang Hutan literally Jungle People in the Sepilok Forest area. The government had designated the Sepilok Orangutan Rehabilitation Centre as their safeguard. Indeed, this is the world's first Rehabilitation Centre for Orangutans. However, the wildlife conservation of Orangutans needs to be translated into economic values. This study aims to determine the economic valuation of wildlife conservation through visitors' Willingness to Pay (WTP) via applying the Contingent Valuation Method (CVM). A total of 143 questionnaires were distributed randomly to international and local visitors. The Logistic Regression was used to estimate the Mean WTP. Results showed that several significant sociodemographic variables influence the respondents' WTP. Nevertheless, most respondents were willing to pay a maximum of MYR16.73, while the mean was MYR7.27 only. In 2017, the estimated annual economic value of the Rehabilitation Centre was MYR9, 697 074.96 compared to the estimated conservation value of MYR96, 970 749.60. The findings of this study demonstrate the possible beneficial role of economic valuation in assisting not just Orangutan conservation but threatened species conservation elsewhere. The study has assisted the Centre's management in determining the appropriate entrance fees for the future, as they have not been revised in over a decade. Integr Environ Assess Manag 2022;00:1-13. (c) 2022 SETAC"	NonUS	Conservation
"The efficacy of assessments that evaluate biological integrity can be improved by accounting for the ecological processes that influence assemblage composition. Many studies have emphasized that bioassessments need to account for natural environmental gradients, but there is little consensus on how bioassessments should account for the impacts of non-native species. In particular, non-native trout species have been introduced into many high-quality streams that probably meet the expected reference conditions for bioassessment in a given region. The goal of this study was to test whether the presence of large, piscivorous, non-native Brown Trout (Salmo trutta) at reference sites altered interpretations of taxonomic completeness indices (TCIs) based on fish assemblages. We used fish data from 215 sites in wadeable streams in northwestern Pennsylvania to compare the performance of 3 TCIs that used different modeling approaches to account for Brown Trout impacts. One model accounted for the presence of non-native Brown Trout as a covariate (covariate model), another model censored reference sites with non-native Brown Trout from the reference pool (censored model), and a final model used all reference sites without accounting for the presence of Brown Trout (unaccounted model). TCIs based on observed-to-expected ratios were able to distinguish reference conditions from altered conditions in the covariate and censored models. In contrast, the unaccounted index could not distinguish reference from altered conditions and was, thus, unable to accurately assess biological integrity, probably because large Brown Trout reduce native species richness. Our results provide a framework for how bioassessment practitioners can use different approaches to account for non-native species impacts, especially when considering which criteria are most important for defining reference conditions. Accounting for the effects of non-native species with these approaches should improve the ability of bioassessments designed to summarize the interactive effects of all potential human stressors on stream assemblages."	USA	Ecology
"Massive wildlife losses over the past 50 y have brought new urgency to identifying both the drivers of population decline and potential solutions. We provide large-scale evidence that air pollution, specifically ozone, is associated with declines in bird abundance in the United States. We show that an air pollution regulation limiting ozone precursors emissions has delivered substantial benefits to bird conservation. Our estimates imply that air quality improvements over the past 4 decades have stemmed the decline in bird populations, averting the loss of 1.5 billion birds, similar to 20% of current totals. Our results highlight that in addition to protecting human health, air pollution regulations have previously unrecognized and unquantified conservation cobenefits."	USA	Conservation
"Background: Viruses directly affect the most important biological processes in the ocean via their regulation of prokaryotic and eukaryotic populations. Marine sponges form stable symbiotic partnerships with a wide diversity of microorganisms and this high symbiont complexity makes them an ideal model for studying viral ecology. Here, we used morphological and molecular approaches to illuminate the diversity and function of viruses inhabiting nine sponge species from the Great Barrier Reef and seven from the Red Sea. Results: Viromic sequencing revealed host-specific and site-specific patterns in the viral assemblages, with all sponge species dominated by the bacteriophage order Caudovirales but also containing variable representation from the nucleocytoplasmic large DNA virus families Mimiviridae, Marseilleviridae, Phycodnaviridae, Ascoviridae, lridoviridae, Asfarviridae and Poxviridae. Whilst core viral functions related to replication, infection and structure were largely consistent across the sponge viromes, functional profiles varied significantly between species and sites largely due to differential representation of putative auxiliary metabolic genes (AMGs) and accessory genes, including those associated with herbicide resistance, heavy metal resistance and nylon degradation. Furthermore, putative AMGs varied with the composition and abundance of the sponge-associated microbiome. For instance, genes associated with antimicrobial activity were enriched in low microbial abundance sponges, genes associated with nitrogen metabolism were enriched in high microbial abundance sponges and genes related to cellulose biosynthesis were enriched in species that host photosynthetic symbionts. Conclusions: Our results highlight the diverse functional roles that viruses can play in marine sponges and are consistent with our current understanding of sponge ecology. Differential representation of putative viral AMGs and accessory genes across sponge species illustrate the diverse suite of beneficial roles viruses can play in the functional ecology of these complex reef holobionts."	NonUS	Ecology
"Mangrove ecosystems are particularly important for small island developing states of the Pacific, such as Fiji, which are at the forefront of the impacts of climate change. This is because of the ability of mangroves to mitigate storm surges and floods as well as their high carbon sequestration and storage capacity. However, there are few detailed studies on the spatial variation in mangrove structure and carbon stocks in Fiji, and this information is essential to support decision making by government and communities, enabling the development of effective mitigation and adaptation responses. We assessed mangrove forest structure in contrasting regions around Fiji's largest island, Viti Levu, within sites managed by indigenous (iTaukei) Fijians. Mangroves of the Ba, NadmgaNavosa, and Rewa and Tailevu regions showed high variance in both structural complexity and ecosystem carbon stocks. Levels of variation were similar to that observed globally due to variable geomorphological and biophysical settings related to omgraphic rainfall, freshwater influx, tidal amplitude and cyclonic disturbances. High biomass, structurally complex forests occur on the wetter south-east coast (e.g. the Rewa Delta), while structurally uniform scrub mangroves dominate large areas of mangroves along the north-west (e.g. the Ba Delta) and west coast (e.g. the Tuva Delta). Mangroves of the Ba region displayed considerable damage from tropical cyclones, particularly in taller vegetation. All mangrove sites assessed were important reservoirs of carbon, with results when scaled to the spatial extent of mangroves in Fiji revealing that ecosystem carbon storage is disproportionate to area and equates to 73.3% of the carbon held within terrestrial rainforests, despite occupying just 7.3% of the total area. This underscores the importance of mangroves as valuable carbon sinks in Fiji and the need to develop incentives for improved conservation and restoration."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"The West Indian manatee (Trichechus manatus manatus), a subspecies that inhabits coastal areas of Central and South America, has been listed as a vulnerable species because of the rapid decline in its population. Commercially available immunologic reagents specific for sirenians are lacking, limiting the development of sensitive immunodiagnostic assays. We observed the affinity of the microbial proteins A and G to T. m. manatus immunoglobulins. Manatee serum pools were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to determine the affinity intensity followed by western blotting to confirm the specific binding of proteins A and G to immunoglobulins. The ELISA demonstrated maximum affinity of both proteins until the serum dilution of 1:12,800, with a similar affinity for both proteins. Because both A and G proteins exhibited affinity to manatee immunoglobulins, they can be used to develop sensitive immunodiagnostic assays for this species, contributing to manatee conversation procedures."	NonUS	Technology
"Climate change is inducing shifts in species ranges across the globe. These can affect the genetic pools of species, including loss of genetic variability and evolutionary potential. In particular, geographically enclosed ecosystems, like the Mediterranean Sea, have a higher risk of suffering species loss and genetic erosion due to barriers to further range shifts and to dispersal. In this study, we address these questions for three habitat-forming seaweed species, Cystoseira tamariscifolia, C. amentacea and C. compressa, throughout their entire ranges in the Atlantic and Mediterranean regions. We aim to 1) describe their population genetic structure and diversity, 2) model the present and predict the future distribution and 3) assess the consequences of predicted future range shifts for their population genetic structure, according to two contrasting future climate change scenarios. A net loss of suitable areas was predicted in both climatic scenarios across the range of distribution of the three species. This loss was particularly severe for C. amentacea in the Mediterranean Sea (less 90% in the most extreme climatic scenario), suggesting that the species could become potentially at extinction risk. For all species, genetic data showed very differentiated populations, indicating low inter-population connectivity, and high and distinct genetic diversity in areas that were predicted to become lost, causing erosion of unique evolutionary lineages. Our results indicated that the Mediterranean Sea is the most threatened region, where future suitable Cystoseira habitats will become more limited. This is likely to have wider ecosystem impacts as there is a lack of species with the same ecological niche and functional role in the Mediterranean. The projected accelerated loss of already fragmented and disturbed populations and the long-term genetic effects highlight the urge for local scale management strategies that sustain the capacity of these habitat-forming species to persist despite climatic impacts while waiting for global emission reductions."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Our understanding of the qualitative and quantitative aspects of seed dispersal by Asian elephants is at its infancy. We explored some of these aspects at Kaudulla National Park, Sri Lanka, focusing on the germination potential of dispersed seeds, and the influence of gut passage on germination and latency in the seeds of Bauhinia racemosa. Seeds of ten species were dispersed and their germination potential was generally poor. However, gut passage significantly reduced the latency period of B. racemosa. Long-term research on frugivory, passage times of seeds and ranging behaviour will help develop wildlife management plans."	NonUS	Ecology
"We investigated the effect of tanning on the stable isotopic compositions (CNHOS) of hair keratin. Samples of hair from polar bear (Ursus maritimus) hides were collected before and after the tanning process from a commercial tannery. With the exception of sulphur isotopes, tanning did not alter the stable isotopic compositions of hair. delta S-34 values were slightly more positive (1 per mil) in hair that had gone through the tanning process, likely as a result of the tanning agent, alum (Al-2(SO4)(3)) or exposure to sulphuric acid (H2SO4). This indicates that, with the exception of sulphur isotopes, hair keratin is resistant to subsequent isotopic alteration by the techniques used in tanning of animal hides and thus the original stable isotopic information is likely to be pr``eserved in archived samples, such as taxidermic mounts and museum specimens. This is an important consideration when dealing with ecological and forensic applications to wildlife, such as evaluating provenance or migratory reconstructions, and so will assist in conservation efforts and investigations of trafficking and poaching. Crown Copyright (c) 2018 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Conservation
"Sublittoral rocky reef habitats host important ecological communities in UK waters, but their ecological condition is difficult to monitor. Monitoring methods based on seabed imagery data are prone to inconsistencies in both the identification and enumeration of species, which is a major hurdle in detecting meaningful ecological change. To overcome this problem, our study used a single monitoring dataset, collected using one standard method at the Pisces Reef Marine Protected Area (MPA) in 2016. We identified which method of data extraction from seabed imagery is best able to detect change along a gradient of anthropogenic resuspended sediments, which represents a pressure on the epifaunal community. We modelled the spatial distribution of the pressure, caused by nearby fishing activity, using an approach based on individual Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) ping data, rather than spatially homogenised data aggregated to a grid cell. We found that up to 22% of the biological variability across the three reef areas within the MPA is explained by the measured and derived environmental variables. The response of the epibenthic community at Pisces Reef MPA to the resuspended sediments pressure gradient is masked by commonly used univariate metrics such as species diversity and abundance of individuals. Conversely, a Threshold Indicator Taxa Analysis (TITAN) identifies community-level change caused by a low level of modelled resuspended sediments pressure. We found that a 0.05 decimal degree grid cell of seabed within 1 km of the MPA boundary, swept by demersal fishing gear as little as five times per year on average, can elicit such a community response. The data extraction metric best able to detect this change in the sublittoral rock community is the frequency of occurrence of taxa in images with an average field of view of 0.7 m2, using a 25-cell grid. More traditional metrics extracted from seabed imagery, such as raw counts and percentage cover estimates, are less sensitive to detecting such community change. The TITAN also identified taxon-level responses to the pressure gradient that could be considered for future monitoring programmes. The solitary coral genus Caryophyllia and cup-like sponges show a sharp and strong negative response to pressure exposure, and could represent a starting point for a future monitoring programme of UK sublittoral rock habitats. The implications for future monitoring are discussed, including survey design, environmental and biological data collection and improved pressure modelling."	NonUS	Ecology
"Seagrass meadows' ability to capture carbon through sequestering autochthonous carbon via photosynthesis means they could represent a potential nature-based solution to rising carbon emissions. In multispecies seagrass communities, and due to species introduction or predicted range shifts, it is important to know which species deliver different carbon sequestration gains to inform conservation actions. Large benthic chamber experiments (volume = 262L) assessed the seasonal and spatial variation in metabolism dynamics of the endemic and dominant Mediterranean seagrass, P. oceanica whilst small benthic chamber experiments (volume = 7L) compared the dynamics between, P. oceanica the native C. nodosa and non-native H. stipulacea. Within shallow P. oceanica edge habitat lower Net Apparent Productivity (NAP) occurs in autumn ( x over bar = 1.3, SD +/- 2.95 O-2 mmol m(-2) d(-1)) compared to summer ( x over bar = 9.9, SD +/- 2.75 O-2 mmol m(-2) d(-1) corresponding with periods of light limiting and light saturating conditions, but it remains overall autotrophic annually (2.3 C mol m(-2) yr(-1)). However, spatial heterogeneity exists, the center areas of P. oceanica were more productive (NAP x over bar =19.7, SD +/- 3.83 O-2 mmol m(-2) d(-1)) compared to edge habitat with spatial changes in productivity relating to plant surface area (96%), shoot density (81%), blade length (72%) and seagrass percentage cover (64%). Under comparative conditions in a sparse multispecies area of the meadow the species demonstrated different capacities for carbon fixation. H. stipulacea was carbon positive and P. oceanica fluctuated between positive and negative carbon balance suggesting both can maintain a balance between carbon fixation and carbon utilised for metabolic activity. In contrast the C. nodosa here would be expected to deteriorate as it was utilising carbon more than it was fixing (NAP(N) (2) ( x over bar = -0.0012, SD +/- 0.0007 O-2 mmol cm(-2) d(-1)). This study demonstrates that not all seagrass habitat is equal. If seagrass meadows are to play a part in mitigating CO2 emissions, variability in primary productivity within seagrass meadows needs to be accounted for to produce accurate total fixed carbon estimates, and subsequently autochthonous carbon sequestration estimates. This means seagrass meadow species composition and the condition of these meadows must be better understood."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Cross-species amplification using domestic cat microsatellite primers is the primary method used for nuclear genetic research in lions (Panthera leo). Genetic differences introduced over 10.8 million years of divergence between the two species make these markers problematic when using low quality and low quantity DNA, a common issue in wildlife genetic research. To increase amplification success of microsatellites in the lion, miniSTRs (<150 bp) with primers designed to be closer to the target region and specific to the lion were developed. Lion specific STRs were successfully designed for 14 of 17 commonly used microsatellites, 10 of 14 being miniSTRs, all with 100% amplification success when tested on 30 lion samples with DNA of varying quality and quantity."	USA	Genetics
"The east Taiwan Strait is largely fringed by sandy and muddy habitats. However, a massive algal reef made of crustose coralline algae has been found along the coast off Taoyuan city in northwestern Taiwan. The porous structure of Taoyuan Algal Reef harbors high abundance and diversity in marine organisms, including the ferocious reef crab, Eriphia ferox. Such a pivotal geographic location and unique ecological features make Taoyuan Algal Reef a potential stepping stone connecting biotic reefs in the east Taiwan Strait, South China Sea to the south, and even the high latitude of Japan to the north. In this study, we examined the population connectivity and historical demography of E. ferox by analyzing mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) fragments of 317 individuals sampled from 21 localities in the northwestern Pacific. Our analyses of haplotype network and pairwise F-ST comparisons revealed a lack of phylogeographical structure among E. ferox populations, implying the existence of a migration corridor connecting the South and East China Seas through the east Taiwan Strait. Multiple lines of evidence, including significant values in neutrality tests, unimodally shaped mismatch distributions, and Bayesian skyline plots elucidated the rapid population growth of E. ferox following the sea-level rise after Last Glacial Maximum (ca. 2-10 Ka). Such demographic expansion in E. ferox coincided with the time when Taoyuan Algal Reef started to build up around 7,500 years ago. Coalescent migration analyses further indicated that the large and continuous E. ferox population exclusively found in Datan Algal Reef, the heart of Taoyuan Algal Reef, was a source population exporting migrants both northward and southward to the adjacent populations. The bidirectional gene flow should be attributed to larval dispersal by ocean currents and secondary contact due to historical population expansion. Instead of serving as a stepping stone, our results support that Taoyuan Algal Reef is an essential population source for biotic reef-associated species along the east Taiwan Strait, and highlight the importance of conserving such a unique ecosystem currently threatened by anthropogenic development."	NonUS	Conservation
"Field-based course work has been foundational to Ecology and Evolutionary Biology curricula. However, opportunities for these experiences gradually have decreased over the past few decades and are being replaced with technology in the college learning environment. The coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic facilitated a rapid transition of all field-based courses to online only delivery, which we argue has forced us to reconsider how to deliver course content to retain field experiences in a manner that is safe during the pandemic but robust to ever changing constraints in the college classroom. Here, we propose pairing an intensive laboratory experience with an otherwise online delivery. We discuss several advantages of intensive laboratory experiences that occur in the field over a short but intensive time period over that of the traditional low-intensity weekly laboratory structure. In particular, intensive laboratory experiences are safer during the pandemic because they allow the group to be tested and isolated, allow more flexibility for students with competing interests for their time, and also enhance student interpersonal skills while still providing strong reinforcement of the skills typically honed through experiential learning. We present case studies for how we intend to apply our proposed model to two courses that heavily rely on field-based experiential learning to facilitate adoption."	USA	Ecology
"Organizations can expand their impact through strategic partnerships. We used social network analysis to compare two network theories in order to determine whether zoos' conservation partnerships form networks that reflect collaborative social movements or business-style competition. Data from 234 zoos revealed a conservation network involving 1679 organizations with 3018 partnerships. The network had 40 subgroups: 1 large network, 6 small networks and 33 disconnected zoos. Social network analysis metrics revealed an incohesive and low-density network. Zoos are more likely to behave competitively like businesses with limited partnerships to protect resources, rather than behaving as collaborative social movement organizations partnering to further the cause of conservation across their communities. Content analyses of organizational activities revealed that 62% of zoos' partners display different skills and roles in conservation projects, while 38% participated in the same activities as zoos. These novel findings about zoos behaving as competitive institutions inform opportunities for better collaboration in order to expand organizations' conservation impact."	USA	Conservation
"Development of global ocean observing capacity for the biological EOVs is on the cusp of a step-change. Current capacity to automate data collection and processing and to integrate the resulting data streams with complementary data, openly available as FAIR data, is certain to dramatically increase the amount and quality of information and knowledge available to scientists and decision makers into the future. There is little doubt that scientists will continue to expand their understanding of what lives in the ocean, where it lives and how it is changing. However, whether this expanding information stream will inform policy and management or be incorporated into indicators for national reporting is more uncertain. Coordinated data collection including open sharing of data will help produce the consistent evidence-based messages that are valued by managers. The GODS Biology and Ecosystems Panel is working with other global initiatives to assist this coordination by defining and implementing Essential Ocean Variables. The biological EOVs have been defined, are being updated following community feedback, and their implementation is underway. In 2019, the coverage and precision of a global ocean observing system capable of addressing key questions for the next decade will be quantified, and its potential to support the goals of the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development identified. Developing a global ocean observing system for biology and ecosystems requires parallel efforts in improving evidence-based monitoring of progress against international agreements and the open data, reporting and governance structures that would facilitate the uptake of improved information by decision makers."	NonUS	Technology
"Structural complexity underpins the ecological functioning of coral reefs. However, rising ocean temperatures and associated coral bleaching threaten the structural integrity of these important ecosystems. Despite the increased frequency of coral bleaching events, few studies to date have examined changes in three-dimensional (3D) reef structural complexity following severe bleaching. The influence of local stressors on reef complexity also remains poorly understood. In the wake of the 2015-2016 El Nino-induced mass coral bleaching event, we quantified the effects of severe heat stress on 3D reef structural complexity across a gradient of local human disturbance. Using Structure-from-Motion photogrammetry we created 3D reconstructions of permanent reef plots and observed substantial declines in reef structural complexity, measured as surface rugosity and terrain ruggedness, and a detectable loss of habitat volume one year after the bleaching event. 3D reef complexity also declined with increasing levels of human disturbance, and with decreasing densities of branching and massive corals. These findings improve our understanding of the effects of local and global stressors on the structural foundation of coral reef ecosystems. In the face of accelerating climate change, mitigating local stressors may increase reef structural complexity, thereby heightening reef resilience to future bleaching events."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Human disturbance is an ongoing threat to many wildlife species, manifesting as habitat destruction, resource overuse, or increased disease exposure, among others. With increasing human: non-human primate (NHP) encounters, NHPs are increasingly susceptible to human-introduced diseases, including those with parasitic origins. As such, epidemiology of parasitic disease is becoming an important consideration for NHP conservation strategies. To investigate the relationship between parasite infections and human disturbance we studied yellow baboons (Papio cynocephalus) living outside of national park boundaries in western Tanzania, collecting 135 fresh faecal samples from nine troops occupying areas with varying levels of human disturbance. We fixed all samples in 10% formalin and later evaluated parasite prevalence and abundance (of isotrichid ciliates and Strongylida). We identified seven protozoan and four helminth taxa. Taxa showed varied relationships with human disturbance, baboon troop size and host age. In four taxa, we found a positive association between prevalence and troop size. We also report a trend towards higher parasite prevalence of two taxa in less disturbed areas. To the contrary, high levels of human disturbance predicted increased abundance of isotrichid ciliates, although no relationship was found between disturbance and Strongylida abundance. Our results provide mixed evidence that human disturbance is associated with NHP parasite infections, highlighting the need to consider monitoring parasite infections when developing NHP conservation strategies."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Marine heatwaves (MHWs) have caused declines in many kelp forests globally. Although the ecological effects of these climatic extremes have been well examined, studies on the role of genotypic variation in underpinning population responses under pressures are lacking. Understanding how kelps respond to different warming profiles and, in particular, intraspecific variation in responses is necessary to confidently anticipate the future of kelp forests, yet this remains a critical knowledge gap for most species. This study examined the responses of early life stages of 9 different genotypes of the Australian kelp Ecklonia radiata to different MHW profiles, where cumulative heat intensity was kept constant: control treatment (constant 19 degrees C), heat spikes (fluctuating 19-23 degrees C), low intensity MHW (ramp up 23 degrees C) and high intensity MHW (ramp up 27 degrees C). Overall, we found significant declines in E. radiata gametophyte performance in all MHW treatments and delays in sporophyte recruitment during MHW exposure. We also found significant genotype by environment (GxE) interactions, suggesting tolerance to acute thermal stress is influenced by genetic variation. Our results showed that offspring from different genotypes within the same population respond differently to MHWs, indicating that some genotypes are susceptible to MHWs while others are more resistant. While the effects on standing genetic variation and subsequent susceptibility to other stressors are unknown, our findings suggest that in addition to immediate impacts on marine organisms, natural genotypic variation in response to thermal anomalies may facilitate the gradual evolution of populations with increased thermal tolerance under future climates."	NonUS	Genetics
"Cookiecutter sharks are pelagic ectoparasites that feed on pieces of flesh from large marine animals. Knowledge on these sharks is still rather scant, with the few existing works successfully using bites found on prey to reveal ecological patterns. This study aims to identify cookiecutter shark bite patterns on pelagic fishes in aggregated schools to gain an understanding of the ecology of these sharks. Data were collected by accompanying landings and onboard in tuna fishing vessels in the western equatorial Atlantic Ocean off Brazil. A total of 138 bite wounds were found on the bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis), and yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares). The most bitten species were the bigeye and yellowfin tuna, together accounting for 85% of all bites. Our findings offer novel insights into ectoparasitic ecology between cookiecutter sharks and pelagic fishes, identifying three major patterns: (i) preference of the sharks for the ventral surface of pelagic fishes; (ii) plasticity in biting tactics, with both bottom-up and lateral attacks; and (iii) habitat-dependent bite incidence (larger sharks commonly bite the skipjack tuna in epipelagic zones, whereas smaller sharks predominantly bite the bigeye tuna in mesopelagic zones). These results contribute to narrowing the gaps in knowledge on the ecology of the elusive, dwarf cookiecutter sharks. Further studies are needed for a better understanding of how shark-pelagic fish interactions are affected by the fishing of aggregated schools."	NonUS	Ecology
"Benthic marine food webs, which recycle organic matter and sustain unique biodiversity, are an important component of estuarine Patagonian fjords; however, these may be heavily influenced by salmon farming activities. Under the above conditions, this study collected several food sources (sediment organic matter, suspended particulate organic matter, macroalgae) and 26 benthic invertebrate species, and analyzed them using a Bayesian mixing model. Briefly, carbon and nitrogen stable isotopes analyses revealed that the highly variable isotopic niche widths respond to food supplies from marine and terrestrial organic matter. In addition, particulate and dissolved waste from salmon farming activities were found to modify isotopic composition ratios in many suspension feeders. Particularly, our results indicate high delta N-15 values in the sponge Cliona chilensis and the encrusting coral Incrustatus comauensis, which appear to be potential ecological indicators for evaluating stoichiometry imbalances and trace organic pollution sources in fjord environments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Since January 2014, the reformed Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) of the European Union is legally binding for all Member States. It prescribes the end of overfishing and the rebuilding of all stocks above levels that can produce maximum sustainable yields (MSY). This study examines the current status, exploitation pattern, required time for rebuilding, future catch, and future profitability for 397 European stocks. Fishing pressure and biomass were estimated from 2000 to the last year with available data in 10 European ecoregions and 2 wide ranging regions. In the last year with available data, 69% of the 397 stocks were subject to ongoing overfishing and 51% of the stocks were outside of safe biological limits. Only 12% of the stocks fulfilled the prescriptions of the CFP. Fishing pressure has decreased since 2000 in some ecoregions but not in others. Barents Sea and Norwegian Sea have the highest percentage (> 60%) of sustainably exploited stocks that are capable of producing MSY. In contrast, in the Mediterranean Sea, fewer than 20% of the stocks are exploited sustainably. Overfishing is still widespread in European waters and current management, which aims at maximum sustainable exploitation, is unable to rebuild the depleted stocks and results in poor profitability. This study examines four future exploitation scenarios that are compatible with the CFP. It finds that exploitation levels of 50-80% of the maximum will rebuild stocks and lead to higher catches than currently obtained, with substantially higher profits for the fishers."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Thallus mechanical strength, as well as production of secondary metabolites as defensive compounds, of tropical macroalgae is often essential for protection from herbivory. In tropical macroalgae, thallus mechanical strength is negatively correlated with productivity - a trade-off between productivity and thallus toughness. The tropical fucoids, Turbinaria ornata which has defensive morphological traits against herbivory and Sargassum ilicifolium which is expanding its distribution in Japanese waters, were examined to determine thallus traits related to mechanical strength and productivity and their pair-wise relationships were also examined. These traits that are directly or indirectly related to the trade-off between productivity and thallus toughness were compared to data for various other temperate macroalgae by regression analyses. We found two strong positive correlations between thallus mechanical strength and thallus mass or thallus thickness, confirming that higher levels of mechanical strength for tropical fucoids is associated with higher biomass or thallus thickness. Also, negative correlations between thallus toughness and productivity were found indicating structural and physiological trade-offs. However, the tropical fucoids exhibited relatively high productivity regardless of their higher level of thallus toughness. These traits of the tropical fucoids slightly deviate from the typical conservative strategy with higher thallus toughness and lower productivity as a trade-off between productivity and thallus toughness."	NonUS	Ecology
"The spatial and temporal variability of marine autotrophic abundance, expressed as chlorophyll concentration, is monitored from space and used to delineate the surface signature of marine ecosystem zones with distinct optical characteristics. An objective zoning method is presented and applied to satellite-derived Chlorophyll a (Chl a) data from the northern Arabian Sea (50-75 degrees E and 15-30 degrees N) during the winter months (November-March). Principal component analysis (PCA) and cluster analysis (CA) were used to statistically delineate the Chl a into zones with similar surface distribution patterns and temporal variability. The PCA identifies principal components of variability and the CA splits these into zones based on similar characteristics. Based on the temporal variability of the Chl a pattern within the study area, the statistical clustering revealed six distinct ecological zones. The obtained zones are related to the Longhurst provinces to evaluate how these compared to established ecological provinces. The Chl a variability within each zone was then compared with the variability of oceanic and atmospheric properties viz. mixed-layer depth (MLD), wind speed, sea-surface temperature (SST), photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), nitrate and dust optical thickness (DOT) as an indication of atmospheric input of iron to the ocean. The analysis showed that in all zones, peak values of Chl a coincided with low SST and deep MLD. The rate of decrease in SST and the deepening of MLD are observed to trigger the algae bloom events in the first four zones. Lagged cross-correlation analysis shows that peak Chl a follows peak MLD and SST minima. The MLD time lag is shorter than the SST lag by 8 days, indicating that the cool surface conditions might have enhanced mixing, leading to increased primary production in the study area. An analysis of monthly climatological nitrate values showed increased concentrations associated with the deepening of the mixed layer. The input of iron seems to be important in both the open-ocean and coastal areas of the northern and north-western parts of the northern Arabian Sea, where the seasonal variability of the Chl a pattern closely follows the variability of iron deposition."	NonUS	Ecology
"In marine environments, increasing occurrence and numbers of microbial Antibiotic Resistance Gene (ARG) subtypes, especially of new beta-lactamases, have received lots of attention in recent years. Updated databases with novel developed tools provide new opportunities to obtain more comprehensive ARG profiles as well as ARG-carrying hosts. Yet, ARGs in human-associated marine aquaculture environments, e.g. in China, remains largely unknown. Using metagenomic data, we revealed high numbers of Multi-drug Resistance, beta-lactamase and aminoglycoside genes throughout the year. Thereby, Alpha- and Gamma-proteobacteria were assigned to the majority of beta-lactamase-carrying hosts. From Metagenome-assembled genomes, three blaF-like beta-lactamases (91.7-94.7% identity with beta-lactamase from Mycobacterium fortuitum (blaF)) were exclusively observed in an unclassified Mycobacterium genus. Notably, other new beta-lactamases, VMB-1-like (n = 3) (58.5-67.4% identity to Vibrio metallo-beta-lactamase 1 (VMB-1)), were found in Gammaproteobacteria. Additionally, 175 Multi-drug Resistant Organisms possessed at least 3 ARG subtypes, and seven of the potentially pathogenic genera (n = 17) were assigned to Gammaproteobacteria. These results, together with high-risk ARGs (e.g. tetM, dfrA14 and dfrA17), provide hosts and new beta-lactamases of ARGs in Chinese coastal aquaculture."	NonUS	Genetics
"Infectious diseases contribute to the vulnerable status of marine mammals, including respiratory illnesses. This study aimed to capture exhaled breath condensate (blow) for microbial identification from wild Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins Tursiops aduncus. Individual dolphins were sampled by holding a funnel connected to a 50 ml centrifuge tube over the blowhole of the animal near shore in Shark Bay (SB), Western Australia. Four individuals were sampled on 2 occasions along with seawater samples. Comparative blow and pool water samples were collected from 4 individual common bottlenose dolphins Tursiops truncatus housed in the National Aquarium (NA), Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Bacteria were identified using the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene from extracted DNA. We identified bacteria independent of seawater in SB dolphins, which included the classes Alphaproteobacteria (26.1%) and Gammaproteobacteria (25.8 %); the phyla Bacteroidetes (15.6%) and Fusobacteria (7.2 %); and the genera Pseudomonas (11.5%), Pedomicrobium (4.5%), Streptobacillus (3.7 %), Phenylobacterium (2.2%) and Sphingomonas (2.1%). There were broad similarities in phyla between SB and NA dolphins yet there were differences between lower taxonomic groups. A number of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were shared between dolphin individuals, which may be a result of their genetic lineage (siblings or parentage), shared living and social interactions. A number of genera were observed in SB dolphins which have species known to be infectious in marine mammals such as Pseudomonas, Mycoplasma and Streptococcus. This study successfully characterised bacteria from DNA captured in blow from wild dolphins. The ability to capture these communities from individuals in the wild provides a novel health indicator."	NonUS	Ecology
"Kinorhyncha is usually one of the more neglected groups in meiofauna ecology. Although their presence is frequently reported in a number of ecological meiofaunal studies, knowledge on their taxonomic composition and distribution at the local and regional scale is very limited. Particularly for the Arctic region, no comprehensive ecological description of kinorhynch communities has yet existed. To address this gap in our knowledge, we compared kinorhynch community structure in different localities: in the region north of Svalbard, in the Barents Sea and four Spitsbergen fjords. Sample locations covered a wide depth gradient from 300 up to 2200 m and different environmental regimes. We analyzed over 4000 individuals among which 18 species belonging to 4 genera and 2 families were identified. The most common species were Echinoderes drogoni and Echinoderes angustus, while the most dominant species was Echinoderes eximus. Patterns of species abundance and shift in their occurrence across the stations were pronounced, with notable distinctions between regions. Three distinct kinorhynch assemblages were observed: 'fjord assemblage' dominated by E. eximus and characterized by the highest standing stock and diversity; 'open water assemblage' with Echinoderes arlis as dominant species and 'north of Svalbard assemblage' characterized by the presence of E. drogoni and Echinoderes peterseni, but at the same time, by the lowest abundance and diversity. We found sediment particle size diversity as the most important explanatory variable. Variation in kinorhynch community structures and diversity was also explained by water depth, but this factor was less important in comparison to sediment characteristics. Surprisingly, food-related variables did not contribute significantly to the model, which could suggest that food partitioning did not influence on promoting diversity. However, it is the first study of arctic kinorhynch ecology and further research is needed to get a more comprehensive understanding of the environmental drivers for turnover in Arctic kinorhynch diversity and distribution. (C) 2019 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Nematodes constitute one of the most speciose metazoan groups on earth, and a significant proportion of them have parasitic life styles. Zooparasitic nematodes have zoonotic, commercial and ecological significance within natural systems. Due to their generally small size and hidden nature within their hosts, and the fact that species discrimination using traditional morphological characteristics is often challenging, their biodiversity is not well known, especially within marine ecosystems. For instance, the majority of New Zealand's marine animals have never been the subject of nematode studies, and many currently known nematodes in New Zealand await confirmation of their species identity with modern taxonomic techniques. In this study, we present the results of an extensive biodiversity survey and phylogenetic analyses of parasitic nematodes infecting New Zealand's marine animals. We used genetic data to differentiate nematodes to the lowest taxonomic level possible and present phylogenies of the dominant clades to illustrate their genetic diversity in New Zealand. Our findings reveal a high diversity of parasitic nematodes (23 taxa) infecting New Zealand's marine animals (62 of 94 free-living animal species investigated). The novel data collected here provide a solid baseline for future assessments of change in diversity and distribution of parasitic nematodes."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"High traffic volume is one of the main contributors to wildlife-vehicle collision (WVC) and wildlife mortality on roads. Government shelter-in-place (SIP) orders have been used to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19, resulting in unprecedented reductions in global traffic volumes. Using traffic and collision data from four US states (California, Idaho, Maine, and Washington), we investigated changes in total WVC, following the state and local SIP orders. From mid-March to mid-April 2020, these orders have resulted in up to 71%, 63%, 73%, and 72% reduction in driving, as measured by vehicle miles traveled (VMT), in CA, ID, ME, and WA respectively. The daily WVC rates from the 4 weeks prior to SIP orders going into effect, to the 4 weeks after, declined 34%, with 21, 36, 44, and 33% declines for CA, ID, ME, and WA, respectively. For mountain lions (Puma concolor) in CA, there was a 58% decline in mortality during the traffic reduction. The changes in WVC from 1 month pre-SIP orders to 1 month post-order only occurred in 2020 and not 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, or 2019, suggesting that the reductions were associated with the reductions in traffic. The measured declines in WVC reversed in ME and WA during May, June and July 2020, paralleling reversals in traffic volumes. A 34% reduction in WVC would potentially equate to 10s of millions fewer vertebrates killed on US roadways during one month of traffic reduction, representing an unintentional conservation action unprecedented in modern times."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Nutrition underpins survival and reproduction in animal populations; reliable nutritional biomarkers are therefore requisites to understanding environmental drivers of population dynamics. Biomarkers vary in scope of inference and sensitivity, making it important to know what and when to measure to properly quantify biological responses. We evaluated the repeatability of three nutritional biomarkers in a large, iteroparous mammal to evaluate the level of intrinsic and extrinsic contributions to those traits. During a long-term, individual-based study in a highly variable environment, we measured body fat, body mass, and lean mass of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) each autumn and spring. Lean mass was the most repeatable biomarker (0.72 autumn; 0.61 spring), followed by body mass (0.64 autumn; 0.53 spring), and then body fat (0.22 autumn; 0.01 spring). High repeatability in body and lean mass likely reflects primary structural composition, which is conserved across seasons. Low repeatability of body fat supports that it is the primary labile source of energy that is largely a product of environmental contributions of the previous season. Based on the disparate levels in repeatability among nutritional biomarkers, we contend that body and lean mass are better indicators of nutritional legacies (e.g., maternal effects), whereas body fat is a direct and sensitive reflection of recent nutritional gains and losses."	USA	Ecology
"The concentrations of Al, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Hg, Ni, Pb and Zn in the thalli of Fucus vesiculosus transplanted reciprocally among four sites affected by different degrees of metal pollution (two unpolluted and two industrial environments) were measured with the aim of comparing the capacity of the algae to accumulate these elements under such conditions. At the beginning of the experiment, the concentrations of all elements differed significantly between the individuals from at least one of the unpolluted and one of the polluted sites. After exposure of the algae for 90 days, the concentrations of all of the elements except As, Cd and Cu in individuals transplanted from the unpolluted sites to the most polluted site increased to higher levels than in the algae transplanted within the site of origin. The same behaviour was observed for all elements except As and Cd in the thalli transplanted from one of the unpolluted sites to the second most polluted site. By contrast, the concentrations of the elements in transplants from the polluted sites exposed in the unpolluted sites usually decreased to approximately the same levels as in the autotransplants. These results suggest that the heavy metal uptake capacity may be limited in F. vesiculosus populations exposed to long-term pollution as an adaptive response to toxicity by metals. We therefore recommend the use of algal transplants to study water quality in highly polluted sites, rather than of native algae already growing in the sites, to avoid the possible effects of such adaptation."	NonUS	Ecology
"Many animals have strict diel activity patterns, with unique adaptations for either diurnal or nocturnal activity. Diel activity is phylogenetically conserved, yet evolutionary shifts in diel activity occur and lead to important changes in an organism's morphology, physiology, and behavior. We use phylogenetic comparative methods to examine the evolutionary history of diel activity in skinks, one of the largest families of terrestrial vertebrates. We examine how diel patterns are associated with microhabitat, ambient temperatures, and morphology. We found support for a nondiurnal ancestral skink. Strict diurnality in crown group skinks only evolved during the Paleogene. Nocturnal habits are associated with fossorial activity, limb reduction and loss, and warm temperatures. Our results shed light on the evolution of diel activity patterns in a large radiation of terrestrial ectotherms and reveal how both intrinsic biotic and extrinsic abiotic factors can shape the evolution of animal activity patterns."	NonUS	Ecology
"Sea-surface temperature (SST) is a key driver for various interactions and feedbacks between components of the Earth System and can control local weather and climate. The formation of marine fog, for example, can be sensitive to small changes in SST at a scale of a few kilometres. As a contribution to understanding processes at the interface between air and sea, this article discusses results from a state-of-the-art fully coupled regional atmosphere-land-ocean-wave prediction system for the UK at km scale. This study focuses on the impact of the changes in surface forcing resulting from coupling SST in the marine boundary layer and formation of summertime coastal fog over the North Sea. A study from July 2013 provided a good case to evaluate the role of SST in fog evolution. The benefit of an evolving SST in the coupled simulation is shown in capturing a warming trend in observed SST over the five-day case study period, with a root-mean-square error (RMSE) against in situ observations of 1.1K. In contrast, in uncoupled atmosphere-only simulations, the initial-condition SST is persisted for the duration of the case, as is more typical in current operational numerical weather prediction (NWP). In the uncoupled simulations, a cold bias develops over the modelling period and the RMSE against observed SST is 2.4K. The impact of coupling is shown to propagate into the overlying marine boundary layer and therefore affect the formation of coastal fog. Increased heat flux from a relatively warmer sea surface in the coupled simulations led to near-surface atmospheric instability, hampering stratus lowering and destroying the fog-promoting inversion layer. This significantly reduced fog fractions in selected regions. The value of model coupling was assessed by comparing coupled and uncoupled simulations initialized at different times ahead of fog development."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"In mid rocky intertidal habitats the mussel Perumytilus purpurarus monopolizes the substratumto the detriment of many other species. However, the consumption of mussels by the shell-crushing crab Acanthocyclus hassleri creates within the mussel beds space and habitat for several other species. This crab uses its disproportionately large claw to crush its shelled prey and plays an important role in maintaining species biodiversity. This study evaluated the consequences of projected near-future ocean acidification (OA) and warming (OW) on traits of A. hassleri linked with their predatory performance. Individual A. hassleri were maintained for 10-16 weeks under contrasting pCO(2) (similar to 500 and 1400 mu atm) and temperature (similar to 15 and 20 degrees C) levels. We compared traits at the organismal (oxygen consumption rate, survival, calcification rate, feeding rates, crusher claw pinching strength, self-righting speed, sarcomere length of the crusher claw muscles) and cellular (nutritional status ATP provisioning capacity through citrate synthase activity, expression of HSP70) level. Survival, calcification rate and sarcomere length were not affected by OA and OW. However, OW increased significantly feeding and, oxygen consumption. Pinching strength was reduced by OA; meanwhile self-righting was increased by OA and OW. At 20 degrees C, carbohydrate content was reduced significantly by OA. Regardless of temperature, a significant reduction in energy reserves in terms of protein content by OA was found. The ATP provisioning capacity was significantly affected by the interaction between temperature and pCO(2) and was highest at 15 degrees C and present day pCO(2) levels. The HSP70 levels of crabs exposed to OW were higher than in the control crabs. We conclude that OAand OWmight affect the amount and size of prey consumed by this crab. Therefore, by reducing the crab feeding performance these stressors might pose limits on their role in generating microhabitat for other rocky intertidal species inhabiting within mussel beds. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Throughout Kenya, new governance regimes that are designed to sustain habitat connectivity for wildlife populations outside of national parks have gained increasing prominence. Though these new regimes often center a discursive emphasis on the synergies between wildlife conservation and pastoralist land use, it often remains unclear how they have interacted with colonial and post-colonial legacies that influenced pastoralists' relationships with land. As an effort to gain an improved understanding of the practices that conservation governance regimes deploy, and their underlying rationales, I present an empirically-driven account drawn from ethnographic field work in Kenyan Ilkisongo Maasai land surrounding Amboseli National Park. I argue that to understand recent configurations of land, it is essential to consider the multiple types of interlocking practices deployed by international wildlife conservation NGOs and the Kenyan state. Under a range of pressures to subdivide collectively titled land, a new territorial and governance configuration is emerging where land tenure will retain characteristics of being both private and collective. I argue that a discursive emphasis that frames conservation interventions as producing welfare for populations of wildlife and pastoralists alike has created new potentials to center the concerns of politically marginalized pastoralists, but has also raised risks of an 'anti-politics' that can reproduce and reinforce multiple dimensions of power asymmetries."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"Negotiations for a new international legally binding instrument under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction (ABNJ) are currently ongoing. A package of four elements are under discussion, one of which is marine genetic resources (MGR), including questions on the sharing of benefits. Governance of MGR in ABNJ requires consideration of access and benefit-sharing options. The MGR element is considered the most contentious since there is a lack of convergence on this topic amongst delegates. This is currently hindering progress in negotiations. Therefore, resolving issues linked to MGR holds the key to reaching agreement of the instrument as a whole. The aim of this article is to gather stakeholder perspectives on goals and options for a new genetic resource mechanism for ABNJ. A scoping literature review was conducted to identify goals and options in terms of access and of benefit-sharing in ABNJ. Next, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 24 people from five different stakeholder groups; scientific research community, private sector, developing States, developed States, and civil society. Results indicated that stakeholders all agree with conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of ABNJ as the most important goals of a potential new genetic resource mechanism for ABNJ. Stakeholders preferred a light-touch governance approach to access, with notification pre- (and possibly also post-) collection of MGR in situ. Mandatory non-monetary benefit-sharing at point of sampling was considered most appropriate, possibly with scope for voluntary monetary benefit-sharing at the point of commercialization. It may be useful to keep these perspectives in mind during negotiations and also during future implementation processes in order to attain the goals of perceived greatest importance. By understanding the different viewpoints and priorities, delegates will be better equipped to negotiate the remainder of the issues related to MGR, to reach mutually acceptable compromises and, ultimately, a new biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction agreement."	NonUS	Genetics
"Resource subsidies across ecosystems can have strong and unforeseen ecological impacts. Marine-derived nutrients from Pacific salmon (Onchorhycus spp.) can be transferred to streams and riparian forests through diverse food web pathways, fertilizing forests and increasing invertebrate abundance, which may in turn affect breeding birds. We quantified the influence of salmon on the abundance and composition of songbird communities across a wide range of salmon-spawning biomass on 14 streams along a remote coastal region of British Columbia, Canada. Point-count data spanning two years were combined with salmon biomass and 13 environmental covariates in riparian forests to test for correlates with bird abundance, foraging guilds, individual species, and avian diversity. We show that bird abundance and diversity increase with salmon biomass and that watershed size and forest composition are less important predictors. This work provides new evidence for the importance of salmon to terrestrial ecosystems and information that can inform ecosystem-based management."	NonUS	Ecology
"Mangroves are well-recognized for their very high carbon sequestration potential. However, studies on their role in global carbon cycling and climate change are hindered due to lack of operational methodologies to model and map their biophysical properties. This study establishes a robust methodological protocol for aboveground biomass (AGB) estimation using i) field measurements, ii) a generic (in the absence of species-specific) allometric equation, iii) multi-sensor/polarization SAR data and derived variables thereof, and iv) machine learning models; that demonstrated high prediction accuracy (R-2 = 0.93) and low uncertainty (mean <= 3% and median <= 1.5%) for a mangrove forest. Following stratified random sampling and on-field accessibility criteria, we laid out 314 elementary sampling points of 0.04 ha each at Bhitarkanika wildlife sanctuary (BWS), India and measured circumference at breast height (CBH) and canopy tree height for 18 species. The estimated AGB range of a generic allometric equation was 9-474 Mg/ha for BWS, with a major representation of 9-347 Mg/ha. We utilized Sentinel-1 and ALOS-2/PALSAR-2 and derived their variables for AGB prediction. Compared to single sensor-based model, we observed higher prediction accuracy for combined sensor data (R-2 = 0.63, 0.87, 0.93; RMSE = 66.75, 39.95, 28.35 Mg/ha; MAE = 52.63, 24.21, 19.55 Mg/ha; and Bias = 3.42, 0.22, 2.15 Mg/ha for C, L and C & L bands respectively using a Generalized Additive Model (GAM) over Random Forest (RF), Gradient Boosting Machines (GBM) and Support Vector Regression (SVR). The higher uncertainty pixels represented seasonal grassland and scrubs in the swampy areas and along the fringes of the creeks that experience diurnal tidal fluctuations. This robust methodology can be replicated for AGB estimates in other mangrove ecosystems to meet the operational carbon accounting requirements of various entities."	NonUS	Technology
"Pinnixion sexdecennia n. gen., n. sp. is described from three pinnotherid hosts: Austinixa gorei (Manning & Felder, 1989), Pinnixa chaetopterana Stimpson, 1860, and Zaops ostreus (Say; 1817). Females of the new species are distinguished from all other entoniscids by possessing two transverse lobes on oostegite 1 and fused oostegites 2-5; males have a pair of lateral expansions on each of the first two pleomeres. The epicaridium larvae of the new species also have a unique elongated, cylindrical terminal process on the pereopod 6 dactylus. Pinnixion sexdecennia n. gen., n. sp. exhibited highest prevalence (> 40%) in North Carolina and Florida. Examination of live specimens of P diaetopterana infested with mature female isopods showed that larvae are liberated via a pore produced in the wall of the host's branchial chamber. Mature females of P. sexdecennia n. gen., n. sp. occupied nearly all available space within the host crab's hemocoel. Female P. chaetopterana had higher prevalence than males, and intensities of infestations were also greater in females. Evidence from all locations showed that mature parasites do not inhibit breeding or molting in the host. Our report is one of the few studies on the ecology and biology of entoniscids, a cryptic but ecologically important group of parasitic isopods. We also resolve long-standing nomenclatural issues involving Entione Kossmann, 1881 and Entioninae Codreanu, Codreanu & Pike, 1960, the subfamily to which the new genus and species belongs, by synonymizing Grapsion Giard & Bonnier, 1886 with Entione."	USA	Ecology
"Monitoring plastic in stomachs of beached northern fulmars for OSPAR?s Ecological Quality Objectives (EcoQOs) has been incorporated into the European Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD). This paper aims to provide the appropriate tools to interpret the monitoring results. MSFD requires a data-derived threshold value (Fulmar-TV) representing ?Good Environmental Status?. Such Fulmar-TV was calculated from near-pristine Canadian Arctic data where 10.06% of fulmars exceeded the level of 0.1 g ingested plastic. This Fulmar-TV is almost identical to the earlier OSPAR EcoQO, arbitrarily set at 10%. The MSFD approach was evaluated for 2661 North Sea fulmars in 2002?2018. Between 2014 and 2018, 51% of 393 fulmars exceeded 0.1 g plastic, significantly above the proposed Fulmar-TV. Linear regression of individual ingested plastic mass over the 2009?2018 period indicates a significant decrease. Over the longer term 2002?2018, logistic regression of annual EcoQ% shows a significant decline and predicts compliance with the Fulmar-TV by 2054."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding the interaction between organisms' life history traits and environmental factors is an essential task in ecology. In spite of the increasing appreciation of jellyfish as an important component in marine ecosystem, there are still considerable gaps in understanding how the phase transition from the benthic polyp to the pelagicmedusa stage is influenced bymultiple environmental factors, including nutrition. To investigate survival, growth, and phase transition of Aurelia aurita polyps, we designed a factorial experiment manipulating food quantity (20 mu g C, 5 mu g C and 1.5 mu g C polyp-1 every other day), food quality (Artemia salina and two dietary manipulated Acartia tonsa), and temperature (13 degrees C, 20 degrees C, and 27 degrees C). Temperaturewas the key factor determining phase transition of polyps and negatively affecting their survival rate and growth at 27 degrees C, which reflected a summer heatwave scenario. Furthermore, at polyps' optimum tolerance temperature (20 degrees C) in our study, budding reproduction benefits from high food concentrations. Interestingly, polyps fed with food containing high level highly unsaturated fatty acid (HUFA) were able to compensate for physiological stress caused by the extreme temperature, and could enhance budding reproduction at optimumtemperature. Moreover, benthic-pelagic coupling (strobilation) was determined by temperature but affected significantly by food conditions. Mild temperature together with optimum food conditions contributes to inducing more polyps, which may potentially bring about great ephyrae recruitments during overwintering. In contrast, heatwave events can potentially regulate plankton community structure accompanied by changes of nutritional conditions of primary and secondary producers and thus, negatively affect the population dynamics of polyps. We suggest a novel polyp tolerance curve, which can help to understand jellyfish population dynamics in different seasons and ecosystems. This sets up a baseline for understanding how anticipated global warming and food conditions may affect the population size of benthic polyps and consequently pelagic medusae. (c) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"For most bird species, little is known about their ecology and survival between fledging and independence despite the potential for post-fledging survival to be a factor limiting population dynamics. Cerulean Warblers (Setophaga cerulea) are a declining migratory species, and full-life-cycle conservation efforts that include the post-fledging period are warranted to attempt to reverse their decline. To understand movement, habitat selection, and survival, we radio-tracked 20 fledglings throughout the dependent post-fledging period. Broods were split by their parents, typically (88%) left parental breeding territories within 12 days, and survivors moved 2.4 +/- 0.7 km (mean +/- SE) from their nest within the 28.1 +/- 1.8 day tracking period. Fledglings were usually observed in the mid-canopy to upper canopy and selected habitat with greater mid-story cover, less basal area, and areas closer to water bodies, compared to available points, when considering data from the entire post-fledgling period. However, habitat selection varied with fledgling age. Young fledglings (0-2 days post-fledging) selected areas with greater sapling cover and less stand basal area, but as fledglings matured, they selected areas farther from canopy gaps with greater mid-story cover. Compared with nesting habitat selected by parents, fledglings used areas with smaller and more numerous trees, fewer canopy gaps, and greater mid-story cover. Survival of the entire period was 48 +/- 14% and most (8/10) mortalities occurred within the first 3 days post-fledging. Evidence indicated eastern chipmunks (Tamias striatus) as the most common predator. Providing or retaining large tracts of forest is recommended to prevent the restriction of post-fledging dispersal, and managing forests to maintain a heterogeneous landscape that includes stands with numerous canopy gaps and dense understory (e.g., shelterwood harvests or late seral stage conditions) as well as stands with a dense mid-story (e.g., younger stands and riparian areas) appears to be important for this life stage."	USA	Ecology
"The Lake Alaotra gentle lemur (Hapalemur alaotrensis) is one of the 25 most endangered primates in the world and shows low success rate in captive breeding programmes. It is therefore vital to further understand its reproductive biology. We studied a captive troop consisting of five individuals hosted at Jersey Zoo during breeding and non-breeding periods over 1 year. We collected behavioural data (n = 318 h) using all occurrence of some behaviours and ad libitum sampling methods, as well as faecal (n = 54) and anogenital scent (n = 35) samples of the breeding female. We measured sex hormone levels using enzyme immunoassay technique and investigated the volatile component of odour signals using solid-phase microextraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. We observed sexual and aggressive behaviours occasionally during the breeding period. Our regression analysis showed that only period significantly predicted rates of female anogenital scent-marking, whereby the female performed anogenital scent-marking more frequently during the breeding rather than the non-breeding period. In contrast, female hormone levels did not significantly explain variation in rates of neither male nor female olfactory, sexual and affiliative behaviours, suggesting that individuals' behaviour alone is not an effective indicator of the ovulation window. The volatile chemical profile of anogenital odour secretions changed over the study, with four compounds distinguishing the fertile window during the breeding period. In conclusion, our findings suggest that anogenital scent-marking may signal the reproductive status of captive female gentle lemurs."	NonUS	Genetics
"Body size of life on the Earth spans many orders of magnitude, and with it scales the energetic requirements of organisms. Thus, changes in environmental energy should impact community body-size distributions in predictable ways by reshaping ecological and niche dynamics. We examine how carbon, oxygen and temperature, three energetic drivers, impact community size-based assembly in deep-sea bivalves. We demonstrate that body-size distributions are influenced by multiple energetic constraints. Relaxation in these constraints leads to an expansion of body-size niche space through the addition of novel large size classes, increasing the standard deviation and mean of the body-size distribution. With continued Anthropogenic increases in temperature and reductions in carbon availability and oxygen in most ocean basins, our results point to possible radical shifts in invertebrate body size with the potential to impact ecosystem function."	USA	Ecology
"This study analyzes microplastic ingestion by three deep-water elasmobranch species (Galeus melastomus, Scyliorhinus canicula and Etmopterus spinax) from the Tyrrhenian Sea, discriminating between stomach and intestine contents. The absence of significant differences in frequency and abundance of plastic items into stomachs seems to suggest that ecological diversity among the three sharks does not strongly influence the probability of plastic ingestion in the study area. On the other hand, the detected differences in the microplastic content into the intestine might be due to a different retention time of microplastics, suggesting how feeding habits could influence metabolic features, and therefore affect the recovery of ingested plastic items. This information would improve the future development of marine micro-litter monitoring systems, following the MSFD requirements. Moreover, this study shows that all the three examined elasmobranch species can give important information even with relatively small sample sizes (N approximate to 30), and they could be used as target species for monitoring micro-litter ingestion in deep-water habitats. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Children nowadays, particularly in urban areas, are more disconnected from nature than ever before, leading to a large-scale extinction of experience with the natural world. Yet there are many potential benefits from children interacting with nature first-hand, including via outdoor learning opportunities. Urban environmental education programmes typically aim to increase awareness and knowledge of local biodiversity and to promote positive attitudes and behaviour towards the environment. However, limited research has been conducted evaluating to what extent these interventions achieve their goals. Here, we explore and assess the influence of a six-week bird-feeding and monitoring project conducted within school grounds (Bird Buddies) on individual awareness, knowledge and attitudes towards birds by primary school children. This initiative was conducted across eight (sub-) urban primary schools within Brighton and Hove (UK), with 220 participating children (aged 7 to 10). Via pre-and post-project questionnaires, we found evidence for enhanced awareness of local biodiversity, alongside significant gains in both bird identification knowledge and attitudes, which were greatest for children with little prior exposure to nature. Many children expressed a keenness to continue improving the environmental value of their school grounds and to apply elements of the project at home. Student project evaluation scores were consistently positive. Mirroring this, participating teachers endorsed the project as a positive learning experience for their students. One year after the project, several schools were continuing to feed and watch birds. Collectively, the findings from this study highlight the multiple benefits that can be derived from engagement with a relatively short outdoor environmental activity. We therefore believe that such interventions, if repeated locally/ longer term, could enhance children's experience with nature in urban settings with combined positive environmental impact."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Determining how resource availability changes daily, seasonally and annually, and how wildlife react to these changes, is valuable for managing wildlife. For vegetative resources phenological information can be used to determine availability and model the distribution of available resources. This study develops a set of annually varying species distribution models using maximum entropy modeling for eight grizzly bear key plant-food species using 1635 food occurrences collected between 2001 and 2017. Seasonal availability (phenology) of plant-food species were then estimated daily at a 30 m resolution for the period 2000-2017 using ground data collected at 15 sites in 2015 and 2018 combined with newly created fine scale phenology product DRIVE (Daily Remote Inference of Vegetation). These food availability layers were then used to develop resource selection functions with grizzly bear GPS collar data to describe daily and seasonal habitat selection and to compared how this changes over a three-year period based on changes in mean annual precipitation. Results demonstrated that grizzly bears selected areas where key plant-food species were available and that habitat selection varied between wet and dry years dependant on season and species. In dry spring conditions, selection for root species was stronger and occurred earlier than for an average and wet year. In the wet summer, length of selection for forb species increased, while strength of selection for wet and dry years was species dependant. In the fall, strength of selection for berry species between wet and dry years was species dependant, but overall selection for berry species was prolonged in the dry fall year. This research aids in predicting how inter-annual differences in climate affect grizzly bear habitat selection and provides insights to managers regarding how changes in management practices that encourage growth of understory vegetation could be used to maximize food resources regionally for grizzly bears and other wildlife."	NonUS	Ecology
"Microplastic pollution in marine environments has increased rapidly during the last decades. These microplastic particles are transported into the coral reef environment from terrestrial origin. Recent investigations suggest that microplastic ingestion can adversely affect marine invertebrates, especially in the coral reef ecosystem. The present attempt has been carried out to identify the coral growth band impregnated microplastics from polished coral slabs and acid leached insoluble residues through microscopic examination. The impregnated microplastics have been present in the following descending order: Nylon > Polyester > Polypropylene > Polyethylene. The irregular-shaped black and red microplastic particles have been dominantly observed. The annual growth band impregnated microplastics are most probably derived from tourist activities and chiefly controlled by oceanic currents and sediment re-suspension. The maximum distribution of microplastics has been observed in the coral annual growth bands of 1964 and 2005. [GRAPHICS] ."	NonUS	Ecology
"Year-round foraging strategies are key determinants of bird population dynamics. However, trophic ecology studies during the non-breeding period rarely focus on individuals from a known breeding colony, precluding links to demographic aspects of the target population or metapopulation. Using stable isotope analysis (N-15, C-13) of primary feathers moulted sequentially after breeding, we tested the trophic niche variation during the non-breeding seasons 2010 and 2011 in Kelp Gulls Larus dominicanus from a colony in coastal Patagonia (43o04S, 64o29W), Argentina. Isotopic niche position changed gradually from late summer to late autumn/early winter due to a progressive depletion in N-15. In addition, niche spread showed a progressive expansion in the same study period. This niche expansion was consistent with the observed differences in the among-individual variability in feeding ecology suggested by niche metrics, being lower during the end of breeding compared to the non-breeding period. Low C-13 values of some feathers suggest that this expansion may be in part driven by the utilization of non-marine food resources/habitats by some individuals."	NonUS	Ecology
"The spatial distribution, chemical composition and ecological risk of 16 phthalate esters (PAEs) were investigated in the sea-surface microlayer (SML), seawater and sediment samples of the Bohai Sea (BS) and the Yellow Sea (YS). The concentration levels of the Sigma PAEs spanned a range of 449-13441 ng L-1 in the SML, 453-5108 ng L-1 in seawater, and 1.24-15.8 mg kg(-1) in the sediment samples, respectively, with diisobutyl phthalate (DiBP), di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP) and di-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) as the dominant PAEs in both the water and sediment samples. The concentrations of Sigma PAEs in the BS were higher than those in the YS. The vertical distribution of Sigma PAEs in the water column showed that the concentrations were higher in the surface waters, but decreased slightly with depth, and started to increase at the bottom. Additionally, PAEs were significantly enriched in the SML, with an average enrichment factor of 1.46. The ecological risk of the PAEs was evaluated by the risk quotient (RQ) method, which indicated that DEHP posed a high risk to aquatic organisms in the whole water-phase, while the RQ values of DBP and DiBP reached a high risk levels in sedimentary environment. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"The release of hydrocarbons and chemical dispersant in marine environments may disrupt benthic ecosystems, including artificial reefs, formed by historic steel shipwrecks, and their associated organisms. Experiments were performed to determine the impacts of crude oil, dispersed crude oil, and dispersant on the community structure and function of microorganisms in seawater (SW) and biofilms formed on carbon steel, a common ship hull construction material. Steel corrosion was also monitored to illustrate how oil spills may impact preservation of steel shipwrecks. Microcosms were filled with seawater (SW) and incubated at 4 degrees C. Carbon steel disks (CSDs) were placed in each tank, and tanks were amended with crude oil and/or dispersant or no treatment. SW and CSD biofilms were sampled biweekly for genetic analysis using Illumina sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplicons. Predicted and sequenced bacterial metagenomes were analyzed to examine impacts of oil and dispersant on metabolic function. Gammaproteobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, and Flavobacteriia dominated SW and biofilms. Bacterial community structure differed significantly between treatments for SW and biofilms. OTUs affiliated with known (Pseudomonas) and potential (Marinomonas) hydrocarbon-degraders were roughly twice as abundant in biofilms treated with oil and dispersed oil, and steel corrosion of CSDs in these treatments was higher compared to control and dispersant treatments. OTUs affiliated with the Rhodobacteraceae family (biofilm formers and potential oil degraders) were less abundant in the dispersant treatment compared to other treatments in biofilm and SW samples, but OTUs affiliated with the Pseudoalteromonas genus (biofilm formers and proposed hydrocarbon degraders) were more abundant in dispersant-treated biofilms. Overall, functional gene analyses revealed a decrease in genes (predicted using PICRUSt and observed in sequenced metagenomes) associated with hydrocarbon degradation in dispersant-treated biofilms. This study indicates that exposure to oil and dispersant could disrupt the composition and metabolic function of biofilms colonizing metal hulls, as well as corrosion processes, potentially compromising shipwrecks as ecological and historical resources."	USA	Ecology
"Changes in benthic megafaunal assemblage structure have been found across gradients of environmental variables for many deep-sea habitats, but patterns remain under-investigated on seamounts. To assess the extent of variability in benthic communities at the scale of within a single seamount, and to assess environmental drivers of assemblage changes, Mokumanamana, also known as Necker Island, a seamount in the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument with no known history of human impacts, was surveyed. Replicate 1 km transects were conducted along depth contours at 50 m depth intervals from 200-700 m on three sides of Mokumanamana using the AUV Sentry. Megafaunal abundance and substrate parameters were obtained from 26,119 total images. The dominant megafaunal taxa were sponges, corallimorpharians, cup corals, and benthic ctenophores. Sea pens and alcyonacean octocorals were also abundant. Overall, abundance and diversity of megafauna increased with depth. Beta-diversity through species substitution with depth was very high. Beta-diversity was also high between the sides and likewise defined almost exclusively by species substitution. Crossed ANOSIM by depth and side showed community structure differed on Mokumanamana for both factors. NMDS and cluster analyses of Mokumanamana show nine assemblages that were defined by depth and reflect differences between sides of the seamount. Environmental modeling with DISTLM indicates sediment, oxygen, substrate variability and roughness, POC, and surface currents are correlated with these assemblage differences. These results suggest that microhabitats on seamounts can promote unique assemblages along depth gradients as well as on different sides of a feature, and this diversity may be easily overlooked without fine-scale sampling. These findings have implications for management and conservation of seamounts as well as future ecological studies of seamounts, as seamounts are generally sampled on much coarser spatial scales."	USA	Ecology
"The complete mitochondrial genome of Helan Mountain chukar (Alectoris chukar potanini) was first determined. The genome was 16,685 bp in length, comprising 13 protein-coding genes, 22 tRNA genes, two rRNA genes, and a putative control region. The phylogenetic analysis based on the complete mitochondrial genome sequences revealed a close relationship between A. chukar potanini and Tetraogallus tibetanus. This work is expected to provide a set of fundamental data on further genetic studies of this protected species."	NonUS	Genetics
"The aim of this research is to set a successful strategy for engaging citizen marine scientists and to obtain reliable data on marine species. The case study of this work is the bearded firewormHermodice carunculata, a charismatic species spreading from the southern Mediterranean probably in relation to global warming. To achieve research objectives, some emerging technologies (mainly social platforms) were combined with web ecological knowledge (i.e., data, pictures and videos about the target species published on the WWW for non-scientific purposes) and questionnaires, in order to invite people to collect ecological data on the amphinomid worm from the Adriatic Sea and to interact with involved people. In order to address future fruitful citizen science campaigns, strengths and weakness of each used method were illustrated; for example, the importance of informing and thanking involved people by customizing interactions with citizens was highlighted. Moreover, a decisive boost in people engagement may be obtained through sharing the information about citizen science project in online newspapers. Finally, the work provides novel scientific information on the polychete's distribution, the northernmost occurrence record ofH. carunculatain the Mediterranean Sea and new insights on predatory behavior on other living benthic species."	NonUS	Technology
"Rapid urban and agricultural expansions are taking place across Peninsular Malaysia resulting in wide spread forest conversion impacting on important conservation areas. Taman Negara National Park is one of the few protected nature reserves remaining largely intact from such anthropogenic threats. In this study we aimed to quantify species richness, and relative abundance and composition of native mammals in lowland and highland forest in Taman Negara National Park. We deployed cameras at 216 sampling plots in the study areas for 14,776 and 6935 trap nights in lowland and highland forest respectively. Our results show that lowland and highland forest have similar species richness, while highland forest has higher mammal abundance, which is likely to be caused by anthropogenic pressures on lowland forest adversely affecting mammal populations. Both forest types have similar mammal species composition. The mammal community includes most of the rare and endangered species in the region, including Malayan pangolin, Asian elephant, tiger, dhole, large-spotted civet, and Asian tapir. The region of the national park that was less likely to be vulnerable to logging, human settlement, agricultural expansion, and poaching (i.e. the Terengganu's sector), had higher mammal species richness, while the Pahang's sector had lower species richness. Mammal species richness increased with proximity to the park boundary and distance from the nearest river but decreased with the increasing number of intruders. This has important implications for management of the edges of protected nature reserves. In the coming decades, the pristine nature of Taman Negara National Park will become highly threatened if anthropogenic activities inside and outside the park are not monitored. It is vital that the responsible agencies tackle these threats through aggressive enforcement and the creation of a robust framework to monitor any land developments that take place in the vicinity of Taman Negara National Park. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V."	NonUS	Conservation
"We explored how presence data and expert opinions performed with respect to identifying the ecological preferences and the spatial needs of six butterfly species in the Federal State of Saxony, Germany. We used presence records and a land-cover map. In parallel we used expert responses to evaluate the 40 land-cover types occurring in the map, in terms of both suitability and permeability for the six species. Presence data were translated into preferences through Ivlev's electivity indices (IEI). Visual analysis of preference maps based on IEI showed a distinct pattern of suitable versus less suitable areas. Similarly, spatial analyses found that presence-points were closer to suitability areas based on IEI than those that were based on expert data. However, in case of mismatches between expert and presence-based evaluations, independent experts identified the expert evaluation as better and considered IEI outcomes as wrong. We found a medium to high correlation between land-cover class suitability and permeability based on expert opinions for all species. This indicates that expert evaluation of permeability is affiliated with habitat suitability. Integration of species-presence data and expert-knowledge about species could enhance our capabilities to understand and potentially map suitability while gathering information about suitability and permeability separately can improve species conservation planning."	NonUS	Ecology
"Heterogeneous seascapes and strong environmental gradients in coastal waters are expected to influence adaptive divergence, particularly in species with large population sizes where selection is expected to be highly efficient. However, these influences might also extend to species characterized by strong social structure, natal philopatry and small home ranges. We implemented a seascape genomic study to test this hypothesis in Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops aduncus) distributed along the environmentally heterogeneous coast of southern Australia. The data sets included oceanographic and environmental variables thought to be good predictors of local adaptation in dolphins and 8081 filtered single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) genotyped for individuals sampled from seven different bioregions. From a neutral perspective, population structure and connectivity of the dolphins were generally influenced by habitat type and social structuring. Genotype-environment association analysis identified 241 candidate adaptive loci and revealed that sea surface temperature and salinity gradients influenced adaptive divergence in these animals at both large- (1000 km) and fine-scales (<100 km). Enrichment analysis and annotation of candidate genes revealed functions related to sodium-activated ion transport, kidney development, adipogenesis and thermogenesis. The findings of spatial adaptive divergence and inferences of putative physiological adaptations challenge previous suggestions that marine megafauna is most likely to be affected by environmental and climatic changes via indirect, trophic effects. Our work contributes to conservation management of coastal bottlenose dolphins subjected to anthropogenic disturbance and to efforts of clarifying how seascape heterogeneity influences adaptive diversity and evolution in small cetaceans."	NonUS	Genetics
"The Canada goose (Branta canadensis) population has radically changed over the past 60 years-from once being extirpated in the state of Indiana to the current level of approximately 113,000. High urban densities have resulted in persistent human-wildlife conflicts and novel interactions between geese and their physical environment. Canada geese typically choose nest sites that are on the ground or slightly elevated sites such as muskrat lodge, but we report observations of Canada geese nesting on rooftops 2.6-12.2 m above ground level in central Indiana. These observations suggest that alternative, unpredicted nesting sites are being chosen over more traditional sites, in a likely attempt to reduce risks of disturbance and predation. This atypical nest-site selection may pose new management challenges, but further research is needed."	USA	HumanWildlife
"The density and size of benthic predators such as crayfish and the physical characteristics of aquatic habitats including benthic substrate size have been hypothesized to significantly affect levels of lake sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens) egg consumption. The invasive rusty crayfish (Orconectes rusticus) was used to quantify consumption and apportion variation in egg loss in an experimental setting. Experiments consisted of large flow-through rectangular tanks (0.8 m wide, 2.96 m(2) total bottom surface area) receiving river water to mimic natural diel temperature regimes. Four crayfish densities were tested (5, 10, 15, 30 individuals or 1.7, 3.4, 5.1, 10.1 individuals/m(2)) that span the range of densities observed in natural settings. Crayfish were allowed to freely move among three substrates commonly found at spawning locations where lake sturgeon eggs are deposited (cobble, gravel and sand). After an acclimation period (15min), 200 lake sturgeon eggs were randomly scattered over each substrate category (600 eggs per tank). Mean (+/- SE) egg consumption over 48hr was 80 +/- 3% (range 19-100% across 16 replicate trials). Egg consumption increased significantly as a function of increasing crayfish density. The effect of substrate size, however, depended significantly on crayfish density (substrate sizexpredator density interaction). Egg consumption significantly increased as substrate size decreased (e.g. from gravel to sand), at both high and low crayfish densities. Egg consumption also increased with increasing mean crayfish body size. Our results revealed that levels of lake sturgeon egg consumption by rusty crayfish are high in some settings. Further work is needed to determine if egg consumption in natural river settings is similarly high and whether egg consumption by crayfish and other egg predators could negatively affect population levels of recruitment."	USA	Ecology
"Parasite conservation is important for the maintenance of ecosystem diversity and function. Conserving parasites relies first on understanding parasite biodiversity and second on estimating the extinction risk to that biodiversity. Although steps have been taken independently in both these areas, previous studies have overwhelmingly focused on helminths in vertebrate hosts over broad scales, providing low resolution and excluding a large proportion of possible host and parasite diversity. We estimated both total obligate parasite richness and parasite extinction risk in freshwater mussels (Unionidae and Margaritiferidae) from Europe and the United States to provide a case study for considering parasite conservation in a severely understudied system. We used currently reported host-parasite relationships to extrapolate parasite diversity to all possible mussel hosts and then used the threat levels of those hosts to estimate the extinction risk for both described and undescribed parasites. An estimated 67% of parasite richness in freshwater mussels is undescribed and over 80% of the most host-specific groups (digenean trematodes and ciliates) are undescribed. We estimated that 21% of this total parasite fauna is at immediate risk of extinction, corresponding to 60 unique species, many of which will likely go extinct before being described. Given the important roles parasites play in community structure and function and the strong ecosystem engineering capacities of freshwater mussels, such extinctions are likely to severely affect freshwater ecosystems. Our detailed study of mussel parasites provides compelling evidence for the hidden conservation threat to parasites through extinction cascades and shows parasites are deserving of immediate attention."	NonUS	Conservation
"Establishing protected areas (PAs) ranks among the top priority actions to mitigate the global scale of modern biodiversity declines. However, the distribution of biodiversity is spatially asymmetric among regions and lineages, and the extent to which PAs offer effective protection for species and ecosystems remains uncertain. Penguins, regarded as prime bioindicator birds of the ecological health of their terrestrial and marine habitats, represent priority targets for such quantitative assessments. Of the world's 18 penguin species, eleven are undergoing population declines, for which ten are classified as Vulnerable' or Endangered'. Here, we employ a global-scale dataset to quantify the extent to which their terrestrial breeding areas are currently protected by PAs. Using quantitative methods for spatial ecology, we compare the global distribution of penguin colonies, including range and population size analyses, with the distribution of terrestrial PAs classified by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, and generate hotspot and endemism maps worldwide. Our assessment quantitatively reveals<40% of the terrestrial range of eleven penguin species is currently protected, and that range size is the significant factor in determining PA protection. We also show that there are seven global hotspots of penguin biodiversity where four or five penguin species breed. We suggest that future penguin conservation initiatives should be implemented based on more comprehensive, quantitative assessments of the multi-dimensional interactions between areas and species to further the effectiveness of PA networks."	NonUS	Conservation
"Antipathes galapagensis and Myriopathes panamensis are black coral species (Order Antipatharia) distributed in the Eastern Pacific from the Gulf of California to the coasts of Peru, at depths from -10 m to -200 m for A. galapagensis and to -50 m for M. panamensis. Antipatharians have great ecological importance as engineer species and major constituents of coral forests, which are recognized as vulnerable marine ecosystems. Antipathes galapagensis has been a target of fisheries in several countries and has frequently been overexploited. Thus, the aim of this study was to compile a database of georeferenced records of A. galapagensis and M. panamensis, and use distribution data and environmental variables to construct habitat suitability models with Maxent software, in order to better understand black coral environmental requirements and potential distributions in the Eastern Tropical Pacific. The models showed good fit and performance (AUC > 0.9); key variables that drive the potential distribution of both species were chlorophyll a, nutrient concentration, and seawater temperature. The models did not predict occurrences beyond the recognized distribution range limits of the species; notwithstanding, they indicated that the Pacific coast of the Baja California Peninsula and the central and southern coasts of the Mexican Pacific have areas of high suitability for the presence of these corals. To our knowledge, no black coral records from these sites exist in the literature to date; thus, field validations are needed to verify the model predictions. With these results, it is possible to offer suggestions of new conservation sites for black corals based on the areas with the highest probability of occurrence of the species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Investment in immune function can be costly, and life-history theory predicts trade-offs between immune function and other physiological demands. Environmental heterogeneity may constrain or change the optimal strategy and thereby alter baseline immune function (possibly mediated by stress responses). We tested several hypotheses relating variation in climatic, ecological, and social environments to chronic stress and levels of baseline innate immunity in a wild, cooperatively breeding bird, the purple-crowned fairy-wren (Malurus coronatus coronatus). From samples collected biannually over 5 yr, we quantified three indexes of constitutive innate immune function (haptoglobin/PIT54, natural antibodies, complement activity) and one index of chronic stress (heterophil-lymphocyte ratio; n=513-647). Using an information-theoretic and multimodel inference statistical approach, we found that habitat quality and social group size did not affect any immune index, despite hypothesized links to resource abundance and parasite pressure. Rather, short-term variation in temperature and rainfall was related to immune function, while overall differences between seasons were small or absent, despite substantial seasonal variation in climate. Contrary to our expectation, we found no evidence that physiological stress mediated any effects of short-term climatic variables on immune indexes, and alternative mechanisms may be involved. Our results may be interpreted from the perspective of reactive scope models, whereby predictive homeostasis maintains standing immune function relative to long-term demands, while short-term environmental change, being less predictable, has a greater influence on baseline immune function."	NonUS	Ecology
"Like many technological advances in the modern era, camera traps present both an exciting opportunity and a host of unforeseen challenges. One critical challenge is processing the large numbers of images/videos from camera traps efficiently and accurately such that resultant data can be analysed, stored and shared with others. Recognising this need, several biologist teams have developed software to meet their own project requirements, but no one package has been developed to meet the diverse array of requirements of the global research community. We combined an online user survey (N = 67) and literature review to create a list of 42 desired features in five categories. We tested six freely available specialist camera trap software and three nonspecialist image viewer software packages against these criteria. Users were most interested in data processing efficiency and automation features (37 of 84 requests). Seven user-requested features were not available in any of the software we tested. Thirty-two unique requests indicated the importance of software flexibility, contrasting with growing calls for standardization in the literature. We suggest involving the global user community, current software developers and computer scientists in an inclusive, planned approach to addressing arguably the greatest challenge facing camera trap-based research today."	NonUS	Technology
"Predicting how combinations of stressors will affect failure risk is a key challenge for the field of ecomechanics and, more generally, ecophysiology. Environmental conditions often influence the manufacture and durability of biomaterials, inducing structural failure that potentially compromises organismal reproduction, growth, and survival. Species known for tight linkages between structural integrity and survival include bivalve mussels, which produce numerous byssal threads to attach to hard substrate. Among the current environmental threats to marine organisms are ocean warming and acidification. Elevated pCO(2) exposure is known to weaken byssal threads by compromising the strength of the adhesive plaque. This study uses structural analysis to evaluate how an additional stressor, elevated temperature, influences byssal thread quality and production. Mussels (Mytilus trossulus) were placed in controlled temperature and pCO(2) treatments, and then, newly produced threads were counted and pulled to failure to determine byssus strength. The effects of elevated temperature on mussel attachmentwere dramatic; mussels produced 60% weaker and 65% fewer threads at 25 degrees C in comparison to 10 degrees C. These effects combine to weaken overall attachment by 64-88% at 25 degrees C. The magnitude of the effect of pCO(2) on thread strength was substantially lower than that of temperature and, contrary to our expectations, positive at high pCO(2) exposure. Failure mode analysis localized the effect of temperature to the proximal region of the thread, whereas pCO(2) affected only the adhesive plaques. The two stressors therefore act independently, and because their respective target regions are interconnected (resisting tension in series), their combined effects on thread strength are exactly equal to the effect of the strongest stressor. Altogether, these results show that mussels, and the coastal communities they support, may be more vulnerable to the negative effects of ocean warming than ocean acidification."	USA	Ecology
"Hunting as a wildlife conservation tool has been the centre of much debate as climate change and increased pressure from human encroachment continue to impact wildlife species globally. As ongoing land use conflicts, natural resource extraction, and population growth threaten habitat, leaders face a dilemma around how to balance sustainable land use management while supporting rural economies. We explored the role of hunting in conservation and looked critically at the perspectives of hunters and those involved in hunting in the western Canadian province of British Columbia. A community-based participatory research methodology guided this study, and we collected data through semi-structured interviews with resident hunters, conservation officers, wildlife biologists, guide outfitters, hunting suppliers, and Indigenous hunters. The results can help inform inclusive policies that balance the needs of local peoples, communities, and conservation in rural regions. Diverse hunting stakeholders have unique knowledge of regional lands and wildlife management practices that are integral to socio-economic and environmental sustainability in rural regions."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Riparian ecosystem restoration has been accomplished through exclusion of livestock using corridor fencing along hundreds of kilometers of streams in the western United States, for the benefit of riparian-obligate wildlife and endangered fishes. Yet, there are limited scientific studies that have evaluated more than short-term shifts in vegetation composition and diversity at a single location or handful of locations following grazing. We sampled riparian vegetation composition along 11-paired grazed and ungrazed (exclosed) stream reaches in northeastern Oregon. Exclosure ages ranged from 2 to >30 years and grazing treatments varied from light grazing every one out of three years to heavy season-long grazing. Species richness and diversity was higher in the ungrazed reaches (p = 0.002). The abundance of native sedges (Carex spp.) and broad-leaved forbs were also significantly (p <= 0.05) greater in ungrazed areas. In contrast, exotic species adapted to grazing such as Poa pratensis and Trifolium repens were more abundant in grazed stream reaches. The prevalence of hydrophytic species significantly increased (p <= 0.01) in ungrazed reaches, (based on wetland species indicator scores), indicating that wetland-dominated communities within the ungrazed stream reaches were replacing ones adapted to drier environments. The increased abundance of facultative and wetland-obligate species in ungrazed reaches compared to grazed reaches suggests that livestock grazing exacerbates those climate change effects also leading to warmer and drier conditions. Further, riparian-obligate shrub cover along the streambank was higher in 7 of 8 exclosures that were older than 5 years (p = 0.05). As a restoration approach, the inherent resilience of riparian ecosystems exhibited in ungrazed riparian zones suggest positive feedbacks to other beneficial ecosystem processes such as increased species and habitat diversity, increased carbon sequestration, enhanced allochthonous inputs and greater sediment retention, that would affect the aquatic and terrestrial biota, water quality, and stream morphology."	USA	Ecology
"Agriculture intensification is among one of the major threats affecting terrestrial reptiles worldwide. There is however a lack of information available on the ecology of these vertebrates in agricultural landscapes. Basic information like the pattern of occurrence in cultivated fields is key to assess the probability of an animal being affected by threats driven by agricultural managing. Focussing on the Italian wall lizard (Podarcis siculus), we performed a field study to assess in detail its distribution and abundance in two cultivations, vineyards and cereal fields. Lizard distribution and abundance significantly varied among land uses, regardless of the arthropod fauna composition and diversity (analysed in the same fields), and the management activities. In the cereal fields, lizards were present exclusively along the field margins while in the vineyards they also occurred in the inner portions of the cultivated areas, even if they were more abundant next to the borders. The widespread presence of lizards in the vineyards suggest that P. siculus can likely adapt to such cultivated areas. This partly lowers the effect of habitat loss due to vineyard planting but exposes animals to the risks related to management activities, including mechanical practices and chemical application. In contrast, the presence of sowed lands, as extremely simplified habitats, results primarily in a definitive loss of habitat for lizards that are unable to settle within them, while the exposure to threats driven by management is less direct than in vineyards."	NonUS	Ecology
"Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) are important ecosystem engineers in North America's central grasslands, and are a key prey base for numerous predators. Prairie dogs have declined dramatically across their former range, prompting reintroduction efforts to restore their populations and ecosystem functions, but the success of these reintroductions is rarely monitored rigorously. Here, we reintroduced 2,400 Gunnison's prairie dogs (C. gunnisoni) over a period of 6 years to the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge, in central New Mexico, U.S.A., a semi-arid grassland ecosystem at the southern edge of their range. We evaluated the population dynamics of prairie dogs following their reintroduction, and their consequent effects on grassland vertebrates. We found postrelease survival of prairie dogs stabilized at levels typical for the species (ca. 50%) after approximately 1 month, while average annual recruitment was ca. 0.35 juveniles per female, well below what was required for a self-sustaining, stable population. Extreme drought conditions during much of the study period may have contributed to low recruitment. However, recruitment increased steadily over time, indicating that the reintroduced colony may simply need more time to establish in this arid system. We also found well-known associates of prairie dog colonies, such as American badgers (Taxidea taxus) and burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia), were significantly more common on the colonies than off. After 7 years, we have yet to meet our goal of establishing a self-sustaining population of Gunnison's prairie dogs in this semi-arid grassland. But despite the uncertainty and challenges, our work shows that reestablishing keystone species can promote ecosystem restoration."	USA	Conservation
"Long-distance migration of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) is known to result in high levels of mortality. For a species experiencing global population decline, it is thus vital to better understand migration behaviour, both in the river and marine stages. Atlantic salmon smolts (n=50) were tracked using acoustic telemetry in the River Deveron, Scotland, and adjacent coastal area. Higher rates of mortality were observed in the river (0.77% per km) than the early marine stage of migration (0.0% per km). Mortality likely resulted from predation. Higher swim speeds were recorded in the early marine stage compared with the river (marine=7.37 +/- 28.20km/day; river=5.03 +/- 1.73km/day [mean +/- SD]), a potential predator avoidance behaviour. The majority of smolts leaving the river did so in darkness and on a flooding tide. Overall river and marine migration success were linked to nights of lower lunar brightness. Marine migration speed decreased with increasing environmental noise levels, a finding with implications for fisheries management. The migration pathway in the early marine environment did not follow obvious geographical features, such as the coastline. Thus, we suggest that early marine environment pathways are more influenced by complex water currents. These findings highlight factors that influence smolt migration survival and behaviour, areas on which future research should focus."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Interannual oceanic oscillations, climate change, and extreme events present a significant and complex challenge to management of pelagic fisheries. In recent years, anomalous oceanographic and atmospheric conditions have been reported across the northeast Pacific, yet research results concerning the biophysical mechanisms impacting specific organisms, populations, and fishery systems remain scarce. Here we discuss trends within the Gulf of California's jumbo squid fishery in the context of relevant climate drivers, ecological dynamics, and mesoscale oceanographic processes. Following the 2009-2010 El Nino event, the jig-based fishery collapsed as squid adopted the small size-at-maturity phenotype characteristic of this species in the equatorial portion of its range. Analysis of regional sea surface temperatures and heights indicates a pronounced shift in the oceanographic trajectory of the system between the 2009-2010 and 2015-2016 El Nino events, whereas in situ hydrographic sampling reveals coincident changes in subsurface temperature and salinity. With persistently tropical oceanic conditions present across critical portions of their pelagic habitat, jumbo squid have lost access to previously productive coastal foraging zones, which in turn has limited opportunities for fishery recovery. Given the importance of jumbo squid to the region's pelagic marine foodwebs, the long-term persistence of such phenomena could have significant implications for local fisheries, economies, and livelihoods."	USA	Fisheries
"Concerns about the impact of pet dogs and cats on native wildlife populations have shaped pet control legislation, despite there being scant research of their impact in urban areas. Using an online questionnaire, we obtained data from 662 Australian dog and cat owners who had observed their pets capture prey in the previous 6 months. Of the pets observed to catch prey, dogs caught a median of 2 mammals, 2 birds, 2 reptiles, and 3 amphibians, whereas cats caught a median of 3 mammals, 2 birds, 4 reptiles, and 2 amphibians. Of mammals caught by dogs and cats, 88 and 93%, respectively, were identifiable as introduced mice, rats, and rabbits. Of pets that caught prey, a substantial proportion caught native animals (62% of dogs and 47% of cats). However, median numbers of native animals caught per dog (2) or cat (3) over 6 months were low. Small skinks and lizards comprised the greatest proportion for dogs and cats, but dogs also caught larger native prey (e.g., possums, kangaroos, and wallabies). Most birds caught by dogs and cats were common or introduced (dogs: crested pigeons and lorikeets; cats: noisy miners and rosellas). To design measures that will effectively protect Australia's native wildlife, thorough understanding of the role dogs and cats play in Australian urban ecosystems is required. These findings can inform that understanding, and assist with development of management strategies for urban dogs and cats, and as well as directing resources to efforts that will most protect urban wildlife."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Ascidians, particularly those highly invasive ones, are typical fouling organisms to cause significantly negative ecological and economic influence in coastal ecosystems. Stolon, which is the unique structure of some solitary ascidians to complete the essential process of adhesion, possesses extremely high tolerance to environmental stresses during biofouling and invasions. However, the mechanisms underlying environmental tolerance remain largely unknown. Here, we used the quantitative proteomics technology, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ), to investigate the molecular response to environmental challenges (temperature and salinity) in the stolon of a highly invasive fouling ascidian, Ciona robusta. When compared with the control, a total of 75, 86, 123, and 83 differential abundance proteins were identified under low salinity, high salinity, low temperature, and high temperature stress, respectively. Bioinformatic analyses uncovered the key pathways under both temperature and salinity stresses, including cytoskeleton, signal transduction, and posttranslational modification, which were involved in stolon structure stability, protein synthesis, and stress response activation. Under the low salinity stress, the extracellular matrix pathway was identified to play a crucial role by regulating cell signal transduction and protein synthesis. To deal with the high salinity stress, stolon could store more energy by activating carbohydrate/lipid transport and catabolism pathways. The energy generated by lipid metabolism pathway might be beneficial to resist the low temperature stress. The upregulation of cell cycle pathway could inhibit cell growth, thus helping stolon conserve more energy against the high temperature stress. Our results here provide valuable references of candidate pathways and associated genes for studying mechanisms of harsh environmental adaptation and developing antifouling strategies in marine and coastal ecosystems."	NonUS	Technology
"This pandemic situation requests a correct understanding of our impacts on wildlife conservation, which would also provide benefits for our species. In this commentary we revised and discussed some of the repercussions that SARS-CoV-2 pandemic may have to wildlife. We propose four actions that should be taken into account to protect and conserve wildlife in this pandemic era: wildlife wet markets must close; human interference with wildlife must be reduced; bats and pangolins must be conserved and not blamed; and Chinese traditional medicine must be more controlled."	NonUS	Conservation
"The Ningaloo coast of north-western Australia (eastern Indian Ocean) hosts one of the world's longest and most extensive fringing coral reef systems, along with globally significant abundances of large marine fauna such as whale sharks. These characteristics - which have contributed to its inscription on the World Heritage list - exist because of the unique climatic, geomorphologic and oceanographic conditions. The region is hot and arid, so runoff of water from land is low, facilitating clear water that allows corals to grow close to the shore. The poleward-flowing Leeuwin Current is an important influence, bringing warm water and generally suppressing coastal upwelling. During the austral summer, strong southerly winds generate the equatorward-flowing Ningaloo Current on the inner shelf - this current facilitates sporadic upwelling events that enhance concentrations of nutrients, which in turn enhance pelagic primary productivity that supports the reef's biota. The coast has experienced several marine heatwaves since 2011 that have caused mortality of corals and probably seagrass, albeit relatively less than elsewhere along the coast. Wind-generated surface waves break over the fringing reef crest, causing cooling currents that tend to dampen warming - although this mechanism seems not to have prevented some areas from experiencing damaging heat, and corals in places that do not receive the wave-generated currents have experienced substantial mortality. Herbivores, from fish to green turtles, are abundant, and in the lagoon, extensive stands of large brown algae provide an important habitat for newly recruited fish. There has been a decline in abundance of some fish. Predictions of future pressures include a weaker but more variable Leeuwin Current and increased human use. The ability of Ningaloo's ecosystems to withstand growing pressures will depend partly on the rate and magnitude of global warming but also on actions that manage local pressures from increasing human use. These actions will rely on continued science to provide the evidence needed to identify the pressures, the changes they create and the ways that we can mitigate them."	NonUS	Ecology
"Contemporary multivariate statistics were used to test the hypotheses that the dietary compositions of three populations of labrids on the west Australian coast are related to body size and undergo seasonal changes and to elucidate the relative extents and basis for any dietary differences within and between those populations. Gut content analyses determined the dietary compositions of Choerodon rubescens in marine waters of the outer reefs in the World Heritage Area of Shark Bay (26 degrees S; 114 degrees E) and of Choerodon schoenleinii in inner protected reefs of that large embayment. The dietary compositions of C. rubescens and C. schoenleinii differed significantly among length classes, progressed serially with increasing body size, both overall and almost invariably in each season and were more closely related to body size than season, whose effect was at best minimal. The size-related dietary change in C. rubescens involved, in particular, a shift from crustaceans and non-mytilid bivalves to mytilid bivalves and echinoid echinoderms. Although the diet of C. schoenleinii followed similar size-related changes, it contained a greater volume of gastropods when the fish were small and mytilids when large and only a small volume of echinoids. The dietary composition of C. rubescens in the Abrolhos Islands, 300 km to the south of Shark Bay, was related both to length class and season and differed from that of this labrid in Shark Bay with the ingestion of lesser volumes of mytilids and greater volumes of echinoids. The size-related changes in diet imply that these species shift from foraging over soft substrata to over reefs as their very well-developed jaws become sufficiently strong to remove attached and larger prey. The dietary compositions of C. rubescens and C. schoenleinii in Shark Bay and of C. rubescens at the Abrolhos Islands were related far more to habitat-locational differences than to length class and season. The above intraspecific and interspecific differences in diet are consistent with qualitative accounts of the relative abundances of the main prey in their respective environments, supporting the view that, despite specializations in their feeding apparatus, these labrids can feed opportunistically to a certain extent and could thus potentially respond to moderate changes in the composition of their prey caused by climate change and other anthropogenic effects. (C) 2018 The Fisheries Society of the British Isles"	NonUS	Fisheries
"A forest of the black coral Antipathella subpinnata was found from 52 to 80m depth in three different sites at Tremiti Islands Marine Protected Area (MPA; Mediterranean Sea), with two of them hosting a monospecific forest on horizontal and vertical substrates. Colonies of A. subpinnata showed a mean density between 0.22 +/- 0.03 and 2.40 +/- 0.26 colonies m(-2) (maximum local values of 2.4-7.2 colonies m(-2)). The link between the local distribution of A. subpinnata and the main oceanographic features confirmed the fundamental role of the currents in shaping the distribution of the species in presence of hard substrata. This black coral forest represents the only one known thus far in the Adriatic Sea, but it could be linked with other unseen forests all over the Mediterranean Sea. The associated megafauna highlights the importance of these forests as habitat for species of both conservation and commercial importance but, at the same time, makes such habitat a target for fishing practices, as many lost fishing gears were found within the coral forest. The enlargement of the MPA borders and the enforcement of controls in the area of the A. subpinnata forest is urgently needed for the proper conservation of this protected species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Payments for environmental services (PES) constitute a growing approach to achieve the sustainability of ecosystems and the benefits they provide to people. However, informal tenure and lack of capacity to enforce property rights impede implementation of PES initiatives. Such challenges are common for local communities in coastal and marine areas who overexploit Common-Pool Resources (CPR) under open access. Assigning property rights to organized users has been implemented as a solution, transforming a public good into a club good. Nevertheless, the nature of CPR makes it difficult to define and enforce use rights based on territorial criteria, which might generate equity concerns between organized users and their peers who lose rights. This paper investigates, using a choice experiment, the willingness of Ecuadorian mangrove resource users to accept a conservation policy that combines a concession for sustainable extraction and an economic incentive. Given that a collective concession for the sustainable use and management of CPR implies exclusion of other communities, we specifically analyze two different access levels: i. total exclusion, where the agreement defines that no one other than the concessionaires can access and extract the resources, and ii. discretionary exclusion, where the concessionaires can establish their own rules and conditions for allowing access and use of the resources by third parties. Our interest is to identify how externally imposed rules around exclusion prevent or motivate organized users from participating in approaches to CPR management based on allocation of property rights. We find that having the discretion to choose the level of exclusion matters to resource users when deciding whether to accept the proposed mangrove management strategy. Moreover, we show that preferences for accepting the conservation policy exhibits heterogeneity among users. We contribute to the discussion on the determinants of participation in incentive-based conservation programs. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Estuarine systems are critical transition zones influenced by sea, land and freshwater. An array of human activi-ties impacts these areas leading to multiple-stressor interactions. Temperature and salinity are among the most relevant drivers in estuaries, shaping species growth, reproduction and distribution. However, few studies provide an overview of cellular rewiring processes under multiple-stressor environments. Here, we tested how salinity could shape the response of ragworms Hediste diversicolor, an important bioindicator and commercial species, to elevated temperature. We exposed polychaetes to three temperatures for a month, simulating control, ocean warming and heatwave conditions (24, 27 and 30 degrees C, respectively) combined with two salinities (20 and 30). We quantified whole-organism performance (wet weight gain and survival), along with cellular stress re-sponse (CSR) and energy reserves of worms after 14 and 28 days of exposure. Significant three-way interactions between temperature, salinity and exposure time show the non-linearity of molecular responses. Worms at a salinity of 20 were more sensitive to warming than worms exposed to a salinity of 30. The combination of high temperature and low salinity can act synergistically to induce oxidative stress and macromolecular damage in worm tissues. This finding was supported by an induction of the CSR, with a concomitant decrease of energy reserves, pointing towards a metabolic compensation strategy. However, under a higher salinity (30), the need for a CSR upon thermal challenge was reduced and energy content increased with temperature, which suggests that environmental conditions were within the optimum range. Heatwaves striking low-salinity areas of estuaries can therefore negatively impact the cellular physiology of H. diversicolor, with greater metabolic costs. However, extreme stress levels were not reached as worms incremented wet weight and survival was high under all conditions tested. Our findings are important for the optimization of ragworm aquaculture and adaptive conservation strategies of estuarine systems. (c) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"The juxtaposition of wildlife and wind or solar energy facility infrastructure can present problems for developers, planners, policy makers, and management agencies. Guidance on siting of these renewable energy facilities may help identify potential wildlife-facility conflicts with species of regulatory or economic concern. However, existing spatial guidance usually does not consider all wildlife that might use a potential facility location or corridors for its servicing infrastructure. We illustrate an approach toward assessing potential wildlife-facility conflicts using readily available vertebrate habitat models. The U.S. Geological Survey's Gap Analysis Program (GAP) has developed spatial models of potential habitat for vertebrate species across the entire nation. To illustrate their applicability, we used GAP models to estimate richness of all native, terrestrial vertebrates within Arizona and for those vertebrates grouped by class or by sensitivity to the type of facility infrastructure. We examined the spatial overlap of high species richness of each group with agency-developed guidance used to inform facility-siting decisions and found that GAP-based richness mappings augmented existing guidance. As the GAP vertebrate habitat models are publicly available for the entire USA, use of these data can provide a coarse view of potential wildlife-facility conflicts and inform facility planning early in the process."	USA	Technology
"The specification of user rights and the devolution of fisheries management and allocation decisions to the local fisher and community level has been found to be an effective approach to improved fisheries management. Rare's Fish Forever's policy and governance work supports and strengthens legal and functional community rightsbased management and exclusive access rights to coastal fisheries through managed access with reserves (MA+R). This paper presents an analysis of the legal, regulatory and institutional pathways undertaken to establish MA+R in Brazil, Indonesia and the Philippines for local communities to secure and strengthen both legal and functional access rights to fisheries resources. The pathways used involved interpreting and adapting a mix of fisheries, marine conservation, marine protected area and government administrative and legal instruments at national and local levels. Several common pathways to establishing and implementing MA+R were identified including partnerships and engagement with leaders and community members, committed local champions and scaling up from experience."	NonUS	Fisheries
"The Eocene/Oligocene (E/O) boundary (~33.9 million years ago) has been described as a state change in the Earth system marked by the permanent glaciation of Antarctica and a proposed increase in oceanic productivity. Here we quantified the response of fish production and biodiversity to this event using microfossil fish teeth (ichthyoliths) in seven deep-sea sediment cores from around the world. Ichthyolith accumulation rate (a proxy for fish biomass production) shows no synchronous trends across the E/O. Ichthyolith accumulation in the Southern Ocean and Pacific gyre sites is an order of magnitude lower than that in the equatorial and Atlantic sites, demonstrating that the Southern Ocean was not a highly productive ecosystem for fish before or after the E/O. Further, tooth morphotype diversity and assemblage composition remained stable across the interval, indicating little change in the biodiversity or ecological role of open-ocean fish. While the E/O boundary was a major global climate-change event, its impact on pelagic fish was relatively muted. Our results support recent findings of whale and krill diversification suggesting that the pelagic ecosystem restructuring commonly attributed to the E/O transition probably occurred much later, in the late Oligocene or Miocene. Marine fish biomass and diversity did not change during the Eocene-Oligocene transition despite widespread cooling and Antarctic ice sheet expansion, according to microfossil fish teeth records from a set of deep-sea cores."	USA	Ecology
"Background Translocation is a common tool in wildlife management and its implementation has resulted in many conservation successes. During translocations, any associated infectious agents are moved with their wildlife hosts. Accordingly, translocations can present a risk of infectious disease emergence, although they also provide an opportunity to restore natural infectious communities ('infectome') and mitigate the long-term risks of reduced natural resistance. Methods We used metatranscriptomic sequencing to characterise the cloacal infectome of 41 toutouwai (North Island robin, Petroica longipes) that were translocated to establish a new population within the North Island of New Zealand. We also screened for pathogenic bacteria, fungi and parasites. Results Although we did not detect any known avian diseases, which is a positive outcome for the translocated toutouwai population, we identified a number of novel viruses of interest, including a novel avian hepatovirus, as well as a divergent calici-like virus and four hepe-like viruses of which the host species is unknown. We also revealed a novel spirochete bacterium and a coccidian eukaryotic parasite. Conclusions The presumably non-pathogenic viruses and microbial species identified here support the idea that most microorganisms likely do not cause disease in their hosts, and that translocations could serve to help restore and maintain native infectious communities. We advise greater surveillance of infectious communities of both native and non-native wildlife before and after translocations to better understand the impact, positive or negative, that such movements may have on both host and infectome ecology."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"1. Fencing is one of the most common methods of mitigating human-wildlife conflicts. At the same time, fencing is considered one of the most pressing threats emerging in conservation globally. Although fences act as barriers and can cause population isolation and fragmentation over time, it is difficult to quantitatively predict the consequences fences have for wildlife. 2. Here, we model how fencing designed to mitigate human-elephant conflict (HEC) on the Borderlands between Kenya and Tanzania will affect functional connectivity and movement corridors for African elephants. Specifically, we (a) model functional landscape connectivity integrating natural and anthropogenic factors; (b) predict seasonal movement corridors used by elephants in non-protected areas; and (c) evaluate whether fencing in one area can potentially intensify human-wildlife conflicts elsewhere. 3. We used GPS movement and remote sensing data to develop monthly step-selection functions to model functional connectivity. For future scenarios, we used an ongoing fencing project designed for HEC mitigation within the study area. We modelled movement corridors using least-cost path and circuit theory methods, evaluated their predictive power and quantified connectivity changes resulting from the planned fencing. 4. Our results suggest that fencing will not cause landscape fragmentation and will not change functional landscape connectivity dramatically. However, fencing will lead to a loss of connectivity locally and will increase the potential for HEC in new areas. We estimate that wetlands, important for movement corridors, will be more intensively used by the elephants, which may also cause problems of overgrazing. Seasonal analysis highlights an increasing usage of non-protected lands in the dry season and equal importance of the pinch point wetlands for preserving overall function connectivity. 5. Synthesis and applications. Fencing is a solution to small-scale human-elephant conflict problems but will not solve the issue at a broader scale. Moreover, our results highlight that it may intensify the conflicts and overuse of habitat patches in other areas, thereby negating conservation benefits. If fencing is employed on a broader scale, then it is imperative that corridors are integrated within protected area networks to ensure local connectivity of affected species."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The coastal zone is a combination of marine and land ecosystems, which represents the core areas of resource utilization in China. The sustainable development of coastal zones should be based on a deep understanding of their resources. Compared with Europe and North America, knowledge of coastal zone resources is more fragmented in China. In recent years, China has used quantitative models to realize integrated coastal zone management, but the theoretical basis and research methods remained incomplete. To this end, we developed an assessment framework for coastal zone territorial space resources, environmental carrying capacity, and spatial suitability from an integrated coastal zone management perspective. We tested this framework in Zhuanghe City, which is located within the Northeast Asian Economic Circle. The results show that the coastal resources and environmental carrying capacity of Zhuanghe City are mainly in a critical state. Land space in the coastal zone is mainly suitable for development, but the functional suitability of different regions significantly differs as more suitable urban areas are clustered on the coastal plain. The proportion of suitable space for agricultural production is similar to 50.51% and is mostly concentrated on the eastern coastal plain. The proportion of space with high ecological suitability is 14.17%, but it is concentrated in the northern mountainous area; there is low space for high value fishery production. Evaluation of coastline function shows that coastline suitable for production occupies a relatively high proportion, with a length of similar to 230.63 km, accounting for 80.92% of the total length of the Zhuanghe coastline. The ecological coastline of Zhuanghe City is occupied by industrial development and urban construction; suitable and unsuitable areas overlap and coastline development functions conflict with each other. Therefore, the coastal zone of Zhuanghe City is under great pressure. In China, coastal cities are the final link of integrated coastal zone management. Our research reveals a previously unreported critical situation in the coastal area of Zhuanghe City, especially in terms of fishery and shoreline utilization, which is worrisome in view of the reported production capacity of the city. Our results offer a reference for improving coastal management practices with the aim of alleviating the conflict between spatial development and protection in coastal areas."	NonUS	Conservation
"Primates occur in 90 countries, but four-Brazil, Madagascar, Indonesia, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)-harbor 65% of the world's primate species (439) and 60% of these primates are Threatened, Endangered, or Critically Endangered (IUCN Red List of Threatened Species 2017-3). Considering their importance for global primate conservation, we examine the anthropogenic pressures each country is facing that place their primate populations at risk. Habitat loss and fragmentation are main threats to primates in Brazil, Madagascar, and Indonesia. However, in DRC hunting for the commercial bushmeat trade is the primary threat. Encroachment on primate habitats driven by local and global market demands for food and non-food commodities hunting, illegal trade, the proliferation of invasive species, and human and domestic-animal borne infectious diseases cause habitat loss, population declines, and extirpation. Modeling agricultural expansion in the 21st century for the four countries under a worstcase-scenario, showed a primate range contraction of 78% for Brazil, 72% for Indonesia, 62% for Madagascar, and 32% for DRC. These pressures unfold in the context of expanding human populations with low levels of development. Weak governance across these four countries may limit effective primate conservation planning. We examine landscape and local approaches to effective primate conservation policies and assess the distribution of protected areas and primates in each country. Primates in Brazil and Madagascar have 38% of their range inside protected areas, 17% in Indonesia and 14% in DRC, suggesting that the great majority of primate populations remain vulnerable. We list the key challenges faced by the four countries to avert primate extinctions now and in the future. In the short term, effective law enforcement to stop illegal hunting and illegal forest destruction is absolutely key. Long-term success can only be achieved by focusing local and global public awareness, and actively engaging with international organizations, multinational businesses and consumer nations to reduce unsustainable demands on the environment. Finally, the four primate range countries need to ensure that integrated, sustainable land-use planning for economic development includes the maintenance of biodiversity and intact, functional natural ecosystems."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Faecal samples have become an important non-invasive source of information in wildlife biology and ecological research. Despite regular use of faeces, there is no universal protocol available for faeces collection and storage to answer various questions in wildlife biology. In this study we collected 1408 faeces from ten different species using a dry sampling approach, and achieved 77.49% and 75.25% success rate in mitochondrial and nuclear marker amplifications respectively. We suggest a universal framework to use the same samples to answer different questions. This protocol provides an easy, quick and cheap option to collect non-invasive samples from species living in different environmental conditions to answer multidisciplinary questions in wildlife biology."	NonUS	Technology
"Vessel slowdown may be an alternative mitigation option in regions where re-routing shipping corridors to avoid important marine mammal habitat is not possible. We investigated the potential relief in masking in marine mammals and fish from a 10 knot speed reduction of container and cruise ships. The mitigation effect from slower vessels was not equal between ambient sound conditions, species or vessel-type. Under quiet ambient conditions, a speed reduction from 25 to 15 knots resulted in smaller listening space reductions by 16-23%, 10-18%, 1-2%, 5-8% and 8% respectively for belugas, bowheads, bearded seals, ringed seals, and fish, depending on vessel-type. However, under noisy conditions, those savings were between 9 and 19% more, depending on the species. This was due to the differences in species' hearing sensitivities and the low ambient sound levels measured in the study region. Vessel slowdown could be an effective mitigation strategy for reducing masking."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The Australian silver gull is an urban-adapted species that frequents anthropogenic waste sites. The enterobacterial flora of synanthropic birds often carries antibiotic resistance genes. Whole-genome sequence analyses of 425 Escherichia coli isolates from cloacal swabs of chicks inhabiting three coastal sites in New South Wales, Australia, cultured on media supplemented with meropenem, cefotaxime, or ciprofloxacin are reported. Phylogenetically, over 170 antibiotic-resistant lineages from 96 sequence types (STs) representing all major phylogroups were identified. Remarkably, 25 STs hosted the carbapenemase gene bla(IMP-4), sourced only from Five Islands. Class 1 integrons carrying bla(IMP) and bla(OXA) alongside bla(CTX-M) and qnrS were notable. Multiple plasmid types mobilized bla(IMP-4), and bla(OXA-1), and 121 isolates (28%) carried either a CoIV-like (18%) or a pUTI89-like (10%) F virulence plasmid. Phylogenetic comparisons to human isolates provided evidence of interspecies transmission. Our study underscores the importance of bystander species in the transmission of antibiotic-resistant and pathogenic E. coli. IMPORTANCE By compiling various genomic and phenotypic data sets, we have provided one of the most comprehensive genomic studies of Escherichia coli isolates from the Australian silver gull, on media containing clinically relevant antibiotics. The analysis of genetic structures capturing antimicrobial resistance genes across three gull breeding colonies in New South Wales, Australia, and comparisons to clinical data have revealed a range of trackable genetic signatures that highlight the broad distribution of clinical antimicrobial resistance in more than 170 different lineages of E. coli. Conserved truncation sizes of the class 1 integrase gene, a key component of multiple-drug resistance structures in the Enterobacteriaceae, represent unique deletion events that are helping to link seemingly disparate isolates and highlight epidemiologically relevant data between wildlife and clinical sources. Notably, only the most anthropogenically affected of the three sites (Five Islands) was observed to host carbapenem resistance, indicating a potential reservoir among the sites sampled."	NonUS	Genetics
"Carnivore protoparvovirus 1 (CP1, earlier called Feline panleukopenia virus) variants such as canine parvovirus (CPV) and feline parvovirus (FPV) are significant, emerging, multihost pathogens of domestic and wild carnivores. The diversity of CP1 variants was studied between 2008 and 2014 in Wayanad, India, where flagship wildlife species such as tigers (Panthera tigris) and leopards (Panthera pardus) coexist alongside domestic carnivores, including dogs (Canis lupus familiaris) and cats (Felis catus). Using polymerase chain reaction, FPV and CPV sequences were obtained from the heart blood of a necropsied leopard individual for the first time in the world and from rectal swabs of three sympatric and clinically ill domestic dogs. CP1 amplicons were also detected in a tiger. Cross-species transmission possibilities were identified, as the closest relatives to the leopard FPV sequence were found in domestic cats from a neighboring state."	USA	Genetics
"The mitigation hierarchy is increasingly used in environmental policy as a way of reconciling economic development and biodiversity conservation. The principle of the mitigation hierarchy is to avoid, reduce and offset the environmental impacts arising from development projects by providing ecological gains through conservation or restoration measures. Most of the research on its implementation to date has focused on terrestrial ecosystems. In this study, we investigated the relevance of marine ecosystem restoration in meeting offset requirements. Stemming from a brief literature review on existing restoration techniques for marine ecosystems (e.g. coral reefs, seagrass meadows, macroalgae beds, 'green' marine construction, and marine sediment re mediation) and our experience on Environmental Impact Assessments undertaken in mainland France and in its oversea territories, we discuss the main criteria ensuring a suitable use of 'restoration' practice regarding offset requirements. We then clarify the different levels of equivalence that should be met when designing offsets relying on 'restoration' techniques. This study aims to clarify to what extent the environmental impacts of economic activity on marine biodiversity can be offset through marine ecosystem restoration."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Understanding how animal behavior can influence the susceptibility of endangered hosts to emerging pathogens and using this knowledge to ameliorate negative effects of infectious wildlife diseases is a promising avenue in conservation biology. Chytridiomycosis, an emerging infectious disease caused by the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) in amphibians has led to the most spectacular disease-borne loss of vertebrate biodiversity ever recorded in history. Unfortunately, the methods of mitigation that are available today are only practical in captive populations, and an effective method that could be applied in natural habitats without inflicting vast collateral damage is lacking. We suggest here that the thermal tolerance mismatch between Bd and its ectothermic hosts coupled with the thermoregulatory behavior of amphibians could be exploited in mitigation interventions combating Bd infection in situ. If microhabitats with elevated temperatures are made available in their natural environment, individuals taking advantage of the possibility to reach their preferred body temperature could critically lower their infection intensity or even clear the pathogen. We provide a basis for studying this approach by reviewing the evidence that supports the idea, describing how technical difficulties may be overcome, pointing out gaps in our knowledge that need to be filled by future studies, and listing presumable bene fits and probable limitations of localized heating. The proposed approach has good potential to become an effective in situ mitigation method that can be easily employed in a wide taxonomic range of amphibians, especially in species that are warm-adapted, while causing less collateral damage than any other method that is currently available. If so, it may quickly become a widely applicable tool of biodiversity conservation and may contribute to saving many amphibian populations and species from extinction in the next few decades."	NonUS	Conservation
"How organisms adapt to the novel challenges imposed by the colonization of a new habitat has long been a central question in evolutionary biology. When multiple populations of the same species independently adapt to similar environmental challenges, the question becomes whether the populations have arrived at their adaptations through the same genetic mechanisms. In recent years, genetic techniques have been used to tackle these questions by investigating the genome-level changes underlying local adaptation. Here, we present a genomic analysis of colonization of freshwater habitats by a primarily marine fish, the Gulf pipefish (Syngnathus scovelli). We sample pipefish from four geographically distinct freshwater locations and use double-digest restriction site associated DNA sequencing to compare them to 12 previously studied saltwater populations. The two most geographically distant and isolated freshwater populations are the most genetically distinct, although demographic analysis suggests that these populations are experiencing ongoing migration with their saltwater neighbours. Additionally, outlier regions were found genome-wide, showing parallelism across ecotype pairs. We conclude that these multiple freshwater colonizations involve similar genomic regions, despite the large geographical distances and different underlying mechanisms. These similar patterns are probably facilitated by the interacting effects of intrinsic barriers, gene flow among populations and ecological selection in the Gulf pipefish."	NonUS	Genetics
"Bugula neritina is a common invasive cosmopolitan bryozoan that harbors (like many sessile marine invertebrates) a symbiotic bacterial (SB) community. Among the SB of B. neritina, Candidatus Endobugula sertula continues to receive the greatest attention, because it is the source of bryostatins. The bryostatins are potent bioactive polyketides, which have been investigated for their therapeutic potential to treat various cancers, Alzheimer's disease, and AIDS. In this study, we compare the metagenomics sequences for the 16S ribosomal RNA gene of the SB communities from different geographic and life cycle samples of Chinese B. neritina. Using a variety of approaches for estimating alpha/beta diversity and taxonomic abundance, we find that the SB communities vary geographically with invertebrate and fish mariculture and with latitude and environmental temperature. During the B. neritina life cycle, we find that the diversity and taxonomic abundances of the SB communities change with the onset of host metamorphosis, filter feeding, colony formation, reproduction, and increased bryostatin production. Ca. Endobugula sertula is confirmed as the symbiont of the Chinese Ca. Endobugula/B. neritina symbiosis. Our study extends our knowledge about B. neritina symbiosis from the New to the Old World and offers new insights into the environmental and life cycle factors that can influence its SB communities, Ca. Endobugula, and bryostatins more globally."	NonUS	Genetics
"Landscape features that form a barrier for one species may not be a barrier for others, depending on how each species perceives the feature. Barriers may not be equivalent, due to unique characteristics at different locations, which may ameliorate barrier effects. In this study, we employed population genetics techniques to investigate how four Rodentia species with differing life history characteristics (fox squirrels [Sciurus niger], eastern gray squirrels [Sciurus carolinensis], eastern chipmunks [Tamias striatus], and white-footed mice [Peromyscus leucopus]) responded to interstate highways as barriers to movement at seven locations with differing site-specific landscape features. For comparative purposes, we included control sites that lacked heavily trafficked roads. We detected genetic differentiation relative to interstate highways among the gray squirrels, chipmunks, and white-footed mice, but signals for differentiation among those three species varied by site, suggesting that site-specific features are important considerations for species responses to high-traffic roads. Chipmunk and gray squirrel populations, two forest specialist species that avoid open areas, exhibited more genetic structure corresponding with highways than either white-footed mice (a nocturnal generalist) or fox squirrels (a larger-bodied specialist that traverses open areas more readily than the other species in this study). Fox squirrels did not exhibit genetic differentiation at any site, whereas gray squirrel study populations evinced no population differentiation at sites with bridges spanning the interstate highway. Chipmunks also exhibited population differentiation at two of the control sites, indicating that less obvious barriers in the landscape may be as important as roads for sensitive species. We interpreted variation in genetic differentiation of species across sites in the context of how interstate highway features (i.e., the presence and condition of drainage culverts and bridges near study sites), combined with species-specific life history characteristics, influence the barrier potential of highways. Culvert presence generally corresponded with a low or nonexistent barrier effect; however, an open, large culvert (>8 m in height) may create a semi-permeable barrier for species that avoid open areas. Bridge presence appeared to facilitate gray squirrel and chipmunk dispersal across highways."	USA	Genetics
"Nature-based solutions including rooftop-water storage ponds are increasingly adopted in cities as new ecodesigns to address climate change issues, such as water scarcity and storm-water runoff. Macrophytes may be valuable additions for treating stored rooftop waters and provisioning other services, including aquaponics, esthetic and wildlife-conservation values. However, the efficacy of macrophyte treatments has not been tested with influxes of different labile carbon loadings such as those occurring in storms. Moreover, little is known about how macrophytes affect communities of metazoans and microbes, including protozoans, which are key players in the water-treatment process. Here, we experimentally investigated the effectiveness of two widely distributed macrophytes, Ceratophyllum demersum and Egeria densa, for treating drained rooftop water fed with two types of leaf litter, namely Quercus robur (high C lability) and Quercus rubra (low C lability). C. demersum was better than E. densa at reducing water conductivity (by 10 x336; 40 mu S/cm), TDS (by 10-18 mg/L), DOC (by 4-5 mg/L) and at increasing water transparency (by 4-9%), water O2 levels (by 19-27%) and daylight pH (by 0.9-1.3) compared to leaf-litter only microcosms after 30 days. Each treatment developed a different community of algae, protozoa and metazoa. Greater plant mass and epiphytic chlorophyll-a suggested that C. demersum was better at providing supporting habitat than E. densa. The two macrophytes did not differ in detritus accumulation, but E. densa was more prone to develop filamentous bacteria, which cause sludge bulking in water-treatment systems. Our study highlights the superior capacity of C. demersum and the usefulness of whole-ecosystem experiments in choosing the most adequate macrophyte species for nature-based engineered solutions."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Roe deer is Laurasiatherian mammal from the family of Cervidae. It is autochthonous and one of the most valued trophy game species in Croatia (Zorit 2014.). Antlers (left and right branch) with complete or part of the skull are regarded as trophy. Despite the fact that roe deer antlers are easily accessible trophies, formulas for their evaluations are still largely debated. It is a consequence of large number of elements that need to be evaluated, possible use of coefficient instead of measuring volume and mass, and potential differences in trophy preparation. Guidelines of the International Council for Game and Wildlife Conservation (CIC) instructs that skulls should be cut through the eye cavities leaving intact nasal bones on the trophy. If otherwise cut or left intact with maxillas teeth, deduction of 65 or 90g is foreseen. Considering the fact that weight and density of bones varies between populations, we hypothesize that above mentioned deductions do not represent real values. Therefore the aim of this research was to determine the deviations from actual mass. A total of 40 roe buck skulls originating from the area of Central Croatia were analysed. All skulls were weighed 3 times, initially when intact, after shallow cut and after proscribed cut. Obtained data were statistically analysed. Following the shallow cut, skull is lighter for 25 to 52 g, which is 11 g less than proscribed 65 g. In other words application of shallow cut will result in the loss in trophy value. In cases of intact skulls loss in weight is related to gross skull mass. In this case even 68 to 70% of variability are explained by gross skull mass (R-2=0.680; p<0.0001- linear function, or R-2=0.699; p<0.01- potency function). According to the intersection of the lines (obligate deduction of 90 g and dependence of mass loss due to the cutting) milestone in the mass is at 310 g gross. In other words trophies lighter than 310 g should be cut according to proscriptions as they will lose less than 90 g, while heavier skulls should be left intact as they will lose more than proscribed 90 g. Regardless of the skull preparation, all obtained masses show statistically significant relation to volume. With increase in volume density of trophies decreases (R-2=0.813; p<0.001), with the fact that cutting of the skull results in removal of denser, heavier parts of the trophy. Application of the coefficient 0.23 depends on the density of the trophy, meaning that its application in the case of heavier antlers with lower volume will increase the trophy value. In the case of porous antlers the real coefficient should be higher, as application of 0.23 results in lower trophy values. In the case of intact skulls we do not advice application of 0.23 coefficient as this will decrease the trophy value."	NonUS	Ecology
"The benthic foraminifers Bulimina denudata and Eggerelloides advenus are commonly abundant in offshore regions in the Pacific Ocean, especially in waste-discharge sites. The relationship between their abundance and standard macrofaunal sediment toxicity tests (amphipod survival and sea urchin fertilization) as well as sediment chemistry analyte measurements were determined for sediments collected in 1997 in Santa Monica Bay, California, USA, an area impacted by historical sewage input from the Hyperion Outfall primarily since the late 1950s. Very few surface samples proved to be contaminated based on either toxicity or chemistry tests and the abundance of B. denudata did not correlate with any of these. The abundance of E. advenus also did not correlate with toxicity, but positively correlated with total solids and negatively correlated with arsenic, beryllium, chromium, lead, mercury, nickel, zinc, iron, and TOC. In contrast, several downcore samples proved to be contaminated as indicated by both toxicity and chemistry data. The abundance of B. denudata positively correlated with amphipod survival and negatively correlated with arsenic, cadmium, unionized ammonia, and TOC; E. advenus negatively correlated with sea urchin fertilization success as well as beryllium, cadmium, and total PCBs. As B. denudata and E. advenus are tolerant of polluted sediments and their relative abundances appear to track those of macrofaunal toxicity tests, their use as cost- and time-effective marine sediment toxicity tests may have validity and should be further investigated."	USA	Technology
"Contaminant exposure is particularly important for species and populations of conservation concern, such as the Steller sea lion (Eumetopias jubatus). We used blubber samples (n = 120) to determine organochlorine concentrations, including polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDTs), and blood samples (n = 107) to estimate total body lipids based on the hydrogen isotope dilution method. We assessed the influence of age, sex, condition, and geographic area on contaminant concentrations in blubber and contaminant body load. The concentration of Sigma PCBs was highest in pups (<6 months) from the Aleutian Islands, and the concentrations in males were higher than females in all regions. The Sigma PCBs and Sigma DDTs concentrations and loads decreased with increasing mass in pups, however, there were no regional or sex differences in contaminant load. Within each of the five age classes, the concentrations of Sigma PCBs and Sigma DDTs decreased with increasing mass, but overall these OCs increased with age. Further, accounting for the lipid content, a potential proxy for energy balance, in the animal load reduced or removed the regional and sex effects present in age models for contaminants. We propose, that adjusting OCs concentration by the lipid content of the blubber sample alone may not fully account for the variability in OC concentrations associated with differences in condition or energy states between young Steller sea lions. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	USA	Conservation
"Predation by feeding-current foraging medusae can have detrimental effects on prey populations. Understanding the mechanics that control prey selection and ingestion rates with different types of prey enables us to better predict the predatory impact of these medusae. We quantified the outcomes of each post-entrainment stage of the feeding process in multiple scyphozoan jellyfish species to understand how post-entiainment feeding events influence feeding patterns. Using 3-dimensional video, we observed and quantified the fate of both passive and actively swimming prey that were entrained in the feeding current of 5 different scyphomedusan species belonging to the orders Semaeostomeae and Rhizostomeae. Less than 65 % of entrained prey contacted the capture surfaces (termed contact efficiency) of the semaeostome medusae, while the rhizostome medusae came into contact with less than 35% of the prey entrained in the feeding cuiient. However, when contacted, prey were veiy likely to be ingested (> 90%) by all species examined. These results suggest that prey capture by oblate medusae appears to be largely limited by the probability that prey entrained in the feeding current will contact a capture surface. As a passive process, this contact stage of the feeding process is directly affected by the morphology of the contact surfaces. The importance of the contact stage of the feeding process suggests that differences in prey selection patterns observed among oblate medusan taxa are likely dominated by the morphology of contact surfaces as opposed to traits which influence the other stages of the feeding process, i.e. bell shape and nematocysts."	USA	Ecology
"This study describes and classifies a case of multiple malformations in an unborn blue shark Prionace glauca fetus, which was extracted from a gravid female captured during a research campaign addressed to the biological study of sharks in northern and central Chile. The analyzed specimen shows tetrophthalmia with unilateral synophthalmia, anomaly characterized by the existence of 4 ocular globes, two of which are partially fused. In addition, the axial skeleton of the fetus shows thoracic lordosis and helical torsion in the abdominal-caudal portion. This is the first world report of tetrophthalmia with unilateral synophthalmia in chondrichthyans."	NonUS	Genetics
"Restoration efforts with native eastern oyster, Crassostrea virginica, in Chesapeake Bay and elsewhere have been limited by shell availability, necessitating the use of alternative structures as subtidal reefs, yet these have rarely been evaluated quantitatively. We quantified population structure, density, abundance and biomass of eastern oyster and hooked mussel, Ischadium recurvum, on a concrete modular reef (75 m(2) surface area over 5 m(2) of river bottom) deployed subtidally at 7 m depth in the Rappahannock River, Virginia during October, 2000. After nearly 5 y (May 2005), we took 120 stratified random samples over the reef. The reef was heavily colonized by 28-168 oysters and 14-2177 mussels m(-2) surface area. These densities translate to 1085 oysters and 8617 mussels m(-2) river bottom, which are the highest recorded for artificial oyster reefs. Size structure of oysters reflected four year classes, with over half of oysters more than 1 y old and of reproductive age. Oyster biomass (1663 g dry mass m(-2) river bottom) and condition index were equally high, whereas parasite prevalence and intensity were low. Oyster density correlated positively in a sigmoid fashion with mussel density up to high densities, then declined. This modular reef is one of the most successful artificial reefs for eastern oyster and hooked mussel restoration, and details features that are conducive for successful settlement, growth and survival in subtidal habitats."	USA	Conservation
"Leptospirosis, a widespread zoonotic disease, is a public health problem, especially in major urban centres, and is mainly reported to be associated with rats. In Malaysia, focus has been primarily given to the Leptospira prevalence in rodents per se, but there is lack of information on the microhabitat structure of the outbreak areas. We aimed to determine the diversity of small mammal species, microhabitat types, and their prevalence of pathogenic Leptospira spp. in the outbreak areas, which were categorized as urban, semi-urban, and recreational forests. Sampling involved deploying 100 to 300 live traps at each study site. Kidney samples were extracted from selected individuals, for screening of pathogenic Leptospira spp. by PCR. Out of 537 individuals from 15 small mammal species captured, 4 species were recorded from urban, 13 from semi-urban, and 11 from recreational forest sites. From 389 individuals screened, 58 were tested positive for pathogenic Leptospira. Recreational forests recorded the highest prevalence with 19.4% (n = 93), followed by urban, 16.6% (n = 163) and semi-urban sites with 9.8% (n = 133). Seven rodent species were tested positive for pathogenic Leptospira from all areas. R. norvegicus was found to harbour the highest prevalence (66.7%) in urban, R. rattus (53.8%) in semi-urban, whereby M. whiteheadi (44.4%) in recreational forest sites. Microhabitat analysis revealed that rubbish quantity contributed especially strongly to a high prevalence of Leptospira. This study contributes to understanding of the host and microhabitat preferences of Leptospira, which is important in controlling the spread of this disease in human's landscapes."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Citizen and stakeholder participation is held to bolster the democratic legitimacy of. marine governance by building trust in the decision-making system through inclusion.However, a growing body of literature points to increasing disillusionment and.exclusion, and thus decreased legitimacy. In this study we apply a 'legitimacy lens' to.examine a dominant conceptualisation of participation in marine governance. We.argue that the socialecological systems paradigm (SES) exerts a substantial.intellectual influence within marine governance. We identify that an ontological.underpinning of the conceptualisation of participation within this paradigm results in the.absence of a coherent articulation of democratic legitimacy in marine governance.scholarship. We suggest that the development of a more nuanced and overt account of.democratic legitimacy is necessary to strengthening the application of SES-informed.marine governance practices"	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Marine seismic surveys are an important tool to map geology beneath the seafloor and manage petroleum resources, but they are also a source of underwater noise pollution. A mass mortality of scallops in the Bass Strait, Australia occurred a few months after a marine seismic survey in 2010, and fishing groups were concerned about the potential relationship between the two events. The current study used three field-based methods to investigate the potential impact of marine seismic surveys on scallops in the region: 1) dredging and 2) deployment of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) were undertaken to examine the potential response of two species of scallops (Pecten fumatus, Mimachlamys asperrima) before, two months after, and ten months after a 2015 marine seismic survey; and 3) MODIS satellite data revealed patterns of sea surface temperatures from 2006-2016. Results from the dredging and AUV components show no evidence of scallop mortality attributable to the seismic survey, although sub-lethal effects cannot be excluded. The remote sensing revealed a pronounced thermal spike in the eastern Bass Strait between February and May 2010, overlapping the scallop beds that suffered extensive mortality and coinciding almost exactly with dates of operation for the 2010 seismic survey. The acquisition of in situ data coupled with consideration of commercial seismic arrays meant that results were ecologically realistic, while the paired field-based components (dredging, AUV imagery) provided a failsafe against challenges associated with working wholly in the field. This study expands our knowledge of the potential environmental impacts of marine seismic survey and will inform future applications for marine seismic surveys, as well as the assessment of such applications by regulatory authorities."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"In recent decades, gobies have dispersed or introduced from the Ponto-Caspian region of eastern Europe in a westerly direction to North American and western European waters. By contrast, the naked goby, Gobiosoma bosc, is the only known gobiid species to have been introduced in an easterly direction from North American to western Europe. The potential invasiveness of G. bosc was assessed using the Aquatic Species Invasiveness Screening Kit (AS-ISK) for rivers and transitional waters for the western and eastern sides of the North Sea. Using globally-derived thresholds, G. bosc was assessed as low-medium invasiveness risk for both sides of the North Sea under current climate conditions. Under future climate conditions, potential invasiveness will increase for both risk assessment areas. Environmental suitability assessment indicated an increase in environmental suitability for G. bosc on the eastern coastline of the North Sea under climate change scenarios and suitability remained unchanged on the western coastline, reflecting the authors' expectations of invasiveness risk."	NonUS	Ecology
"Context. Reintroductions can be an effective means of re-establishing locally extinct or declining faunal populations. However, incomplete knowledge of variables influencing survival and establishment can limit successful outcomes. Aim. We aimed to examine the factors (e.g. sex, body mass, release order) influencing the survival, dispersal, home range and habitat selection of reintroduced southern brown bandicoots (eastern subspecies; Isoodon obesulus obesulus) into an unfenced, predator-managed environment in south-eastern Australia (Booderee National Park). Methods. Over 2 weeks in May 2016, six female and five male bandicoots were wild-caught in state forest and hard released into the park. Release locations were approximately evenly distributed between three primary vegetation types assessed as suitable habitat: heath, woodland and forest. Bandicoots were radio-tracked day and night for 4 weeks from the initial release date. Key results. No mortality was detected. Males dispersed more than twice as far as females (male (x) over bar 704 m, female (x) over bar 332 m), but there was no significant sex bias in home range size. At the landscape scale, bandicoots preferentially selected home ranges that contained heath and avoided forest. Within home ranges, heath and woodland were both favoured over forest. Conclusions. Post-release dispersal is sex-biased, but more data are required to determine the influence of other predictors such as body mass and release order. Within the release area, bandicoots favoured non-forest vegetation types."	NonUS	Conservation
"The trade in marine ornamental fishes includes over 1800 species and is regarded as an introduction source for non-native fishes. Given this large pool of potential invaders, a targeted approach that evaluates risk for groups of fishes with demonstrated invasion history is both practical and feasible. In this way, proactive risk management frameworks can be used to identify risky species prior to introduction. Though the establishment of introduced marine ornamental species is uncommon, the invasion of Pterois volitans and P. miles in the western Atlantic Ocean has demonstrated the risks associated with the marine ornamental industry. These species, along with several other lionfishes, are regularly imported into the United States. We used the Aquatic Species Invasiveness Screening Kit to evaluate the risk of invasion for 14 species of traded lionfishes in the genera Pterois, Dendrochirus, and Parapterois for southeastern United States coastal waters of the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Ocean. The lionfish invasion is widely considered to be one of the worst marine invasions to date. Despite this, risk associated with the trade of lionfishes was estimated to be low, with notable exceptions. We identify Pterois russelii, Pterois lunulata, and Dendrochirus brachypterus as species with potentially elevated invasion risk. State and federal management agencies within the western Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and Caribbean should consider a detailed evaluation of these species to inform management action. This study is the one of the largest risk screening application of marine fishes to date and demonstrates the utility of prioritizing risk assessment of taxa found in pathways with related or otherwise similar species with previous invasion history."	USA	Fisheries
"To advance the dialogue to define sustainable working landscapes, it is essential to include the perceptions, knowledge, and factors guiding decision making. We surveyed livestock producers in the Grand River Grasslands region of southern Iowa and northern Missouri, United States, to gain insight into key factors shaping decision making and perspectives on effective management practices in the eastern Great Plains, focusing in particular on demographic and social change and producer willingness to reduce stocking rate as a conservation practice. First, a longitudinal evaluation of livestock producer demographics in 2007 and 2017 revealed individuals were older and were renting grazing land to a greater extent than in 2007. Second, when making land management decisions, producers in 2017 focused on economic concerns more than environmental concerns compared with more balanced views in 2007. For those who prioritized the environment over economics, this prioritization was related to both higher levels of education and a willingness to reduce stocking rate (livestock production) if there is a positive conservation outcome. In contrast, a lower willingness to reduce stocking was associated with increasing rental acreage and prevalence of an invasive cool-season grass that responds favorably to heavy grazing (tall fescue, Schedonorus arundinaceus Schreb.). Regardless, about 37% of cattle producers representing similar to 40% of the land area surveyed were at least moderately willing to reduce stocking rates to achieve a conservation outcome. In conclusion, our findings suggest that producers' need to gain income from livestock may limit the willingness to enact a conservation practice similar to reduced stocking rates. However, there is clearly conservation receptiveness from a segment of the producer community, which indicates potential for improved conservation. (C) 2019 The Society for Range Management. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	USA	Conservation
"Sea-ice and coastal glacier loss in the Western Antarctic Peninsula open new ice-free areas. They allowing primary production and providing new seabed for colonisation, both acting as a negative feedback of climate change. However, the injection of sediment-laden runoff from the melting of land-terminating glaciers may reduce this feedback. Changes in particulate matter will affect nutrition and excretion (faeces stoichiometry and properties) of suspension feeders, reshaping coastal carbon dynamics and pelagic-benthic coupling. Absorption efficiency and biodeposition of Euphausia superba and Cnemidocarpa verrucosa were quantified for different food treatments and varying sediment concentrations. Both species showed high overall absorption efficiency for free-sediment diets, but were negatively affected by sediment addition. High sediment conditions increased krill biodeposition, while it decreased in ascidians. Energy balance estimation indicated high carbon sink potential in ascidians, but it is modulated by food characteristics and negatively affected by sediment inputs in the water column."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Marine reserves are essential for the conservation of fishery resources. However, marine island reef as a natural reserve is poorly developed, mainly because the ecological patterns of fishes in such areas remain little known. Here, we attempt to uncover the diel and seasonal patterns of fish assemblage in the Zhongjieshan Archipelago, which is a typical marine island reef biotope, located at the junction of the Yangtze and Qiantang rivers in the East China Sea. Fish communities in this area are mainly composed of continental shelf demersal fishes, continental shelf benthopelagic fishes, and continental shelf pelagic-neritic fishes. Among them, continental shelf demersal fishes tend to occur in the daytime or during autumn, continental shelf benthopelagic fishes at night or during summer, and continental shelf pelagic-neritic fishes in the daytime or during spring. Seasonal migratory fishes are mainly observed during spring and summer. Moreover, alternate and migration indices showed the lowest stability of the community in the daytime and during winter, revealing that fishes prefer to occur around the island reef at night or in the day-night time. Such patterns are mainly affected by the seasonal shift, predominant communities, and diel alternation. These findings will greatly help develop the sustainable fishing strategy and construct the marine island reef reserve for the conservation of fishery resources."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Gulf Islands National Seashore in Florida, USA, hosts breeding populations of migratory beach-nesting birds, along with other avian species. It consists of 2 barrier islands with a public paved road that runs through the center. For the past decade, bird carcasses were observed opportunistically along the roadway, and this mortality sparked interest among wildlife managers about population-level effects on species of conservation concern. Accurately estimating wildlife mortality from carcass counts requires correcting negative bias due to imperfect detection and scavenging between surveys. We had only 1 observer available to perform road surveys, leading to a carcass detection rate of 1.0 after discovery, and a persistence rate that was only estimable after discovery. We therefore employed a robust design version of a time-of-detection model to estimate detection and persistence rates. We used a post hoc derivation of the superpopulation size for carcasses, which is an estimate of the total number of carcasses that were ever present on the road for any period of time. Each primary survey consisted of 2 passes on the road within 4 hours. Probability of detection for 2 passes was near 100%. We counted 77 avian carcasses between 22 May and 4 July 2013 and estimated that this represented 106.8 +/- 21.3 (SE) birds killed on the road during that time period. Opportunistic surveying by park service staff detected between 0% and 100% of carcasses we estimated to be present, depending on the date. Standardized surveys are needed going forward to estimate annual variation in carcass numbers and to determine effectiveness of mortality mitigation. Moreover, further research can use these estimates to understand the contribution of road mortality to population trends. (c) 2018 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Conservation
"Despite the increase of literature on seabird plastic ingestion in recent years, few studies have assessed how plastic loads vary according to different sampling methods. Most studies use necropsies of seabirds with a natural cause of death, e.g. beached or predated, to determine plastic loads and monitor marine debris. Sampling naturally dead seabirds may be biased as they have perished because of their intrinsic factors, e.g. poor body condition, high parasite loads, sickness or predation, affecting estimates of plastic loads. However, seabirds killed accidentally may be more representative of the population. Here, we used the short-tailed shearwater Ardenna tenuirostris to test different sampling methods: naturally beached fledglings and accidentally road-killed fledglings after being attracted and grounded by artificial lights. We compared plastic load, body condition, and feeding strategies (through using feathers' (delta C-13 and delta N-15 isotope niche) between beached and road-killed fledglings. Beached birds showed higher plastic loads, poorer body condition and reduced isotopic variability, suggesting that this group is not a representative subsample of the whole cohort of the fledgling population. Our results might have implications for long-term monitoring programs of seabird plastic ingestion. Monitoring plastic debris through beached birds could overestimate plastic ingestion by the entire population. We encourage the establishment of refined monitoring programs using fledglings grounded by light pollution if available. These samples focus on known cohorts from the same population. The fledgling plastic loads are transferred from parents during parental feeding, accumulating during the chick-rearing period. Thus, these fledglings provide a higher and valuable temporal resolution, which is more useful and informative than unknown life history of beached birds. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Marine litter pollution is a global environmental problem. Beach litter is a part of this problem, and is widely monitored in Europe. The European Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) requires a reduction of beach litter. A reduction of 30% has been proposed in the European Plastics Strategy. The aims of this study are to develop (a) a method to calculate sufficiently stable and precise baseline values for beach litter, and (b) to derive a method of power analysis to estimate the number of beach litter surveys, necessary to detect a given reduction, using these baseline values. Beach litter data from the OSPAR (Oslo Paris Convention) region were used, and tailor-made statistical methods were implemented in open source software, litteR. Descriptive statistics and Theil-Sen and Mann-Kendall trend analyses were calculated for the most abundant beach litter types, for 14 survey sites. The length of a baseline period necessary to obtain a specified precision of the mean baseline value, expressed as Coefficient of Variation (CV), was calculated. Power analyses were performed using Monte Carlo simulations combined with Wilcoxon tests to determine significant deviations of the simulated datasets from the baseline mean values, For most survey sites, the mean length of monitoring periods necessary to achieve a CV < 10% amounts to four to five years with four surveys a year. The mean number of surveys necessary to detect a statistically significant reduction of 30% with 80% power ranges from 14 to 20. Power analyses show that a reduction of 10% is difficult to detect, because more than 24 surveys are needed. In contrary, a reduction of 40-50% can be detected easily with a small (<12) number of surveys. The new methods could also be applied to other areas where similar beach litter surveys are performed. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd."	NonUS	Ecology
"Global socioeconomic and ecological changes strongly impact Indigenous communities by affecting food security, physical health, and overall wellbeing. Throughout the 1900s, residents of the Mackenzie Delta in Canada's western Arctic relied heavily on the muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) for food, fur, and culture, but recent changes to ecological and economic conditions have altered the nature of this relationship. We investigated the role of muskrats in the cultural traditions and land-based livelihoods of the Gwich'in and Inuvialuit residents of the Mackenzie Delta through interviews and meetings with over 70 community members. Although the role of muskrats has changed over the last 100 years, muskrat harvesting continues to offer Delta residents a meaningful way to remain engaged in, perpetuate, and strengthen their cultural identity and land-based traditions among generations, and ultimately, to foster individual and community wellbeing."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Understanding herbivore selection and utilization of vegetation types is fundamental to conservation of multispecies communities. We tested three hypotheses for how ungulate species select their habitats and how this changes with season: first, resources are distributed as a mosaic of patches so that ungulates are also distributed patchily; this distribution reflects habitat selection, which changes with season, the different ungulates behaving differently. Second, resources become scarcer in the dry season relative to those in the wet season. If interspecific competition prevails, then all species should show a contraction of habitats chosen. Third, if predation is limiting, competition will be minimal, and hence, habitat selection by herbivores will not differ between seasons. We used frequencies of occurrence in four common vegetation types in western Serengeti National Park to determine selection coefficients and utilization patterns and Chi-square analysis to test the hypotheses. The results showed that selection changes differently in each species, agreeing with the first hypothesis. Herbivores did not all become more selective, as predicted by the competition hypothesis, nor did selection remain the same across seasons, as predicted by the predation hypothesis. These results can be useful in constructing habitat suitability maps for ungulate species with special conservation needs."	NonUS	Conservation
"Nitrogen is an essential element for all life and it exhibits in three major dissolved inorganic chemical forms to participate in the marine nitrogen cycling. In this study, a transect through the weak cold eddy was undertaken near Xisha Islands of the South China Sea (SCS) in summer of 2009. There was a trend of decreased temperature inside the eddy, while PO4 and NO3 increased in comparison to outside the eddy The primary nitrite maximum (PNM) was found in the depth of about 50 m in the in-situ samples. Phytoplankton excretion has advantage of PNM formation and maintenance in the euphotic layer. Additionally, nitrate anomaly (N*) were positive, which implies that nitrogen fixation occurs in the surface water in the studying period. These results indicate that cold eddy has influence on regulating inorganic nitrogen biogeochemistry in the studying area during sampling period. (C) 2022 Published by Elsevier B.V."	NonUS	Ecology
"Despite the fact that tapeworms comprise the bulk of parasite communities of sharks in marine ecosystems, little is known about their life cycles and, more specifically, about the potential intermediate hosts they utilize as transmission routes. In the absence of morphological features required for specific identification of larval tapeworms from potential intermediate hosts, recent molecular advances have contributed to linking larval and adult parasites and, in some instances, uncovering unknown trophic links. Host-parasite checklists are often the first source of information consulted to assess the diversity and host specificity of parasites, and provide insights into parasite identification. However, these host-parasite checklists are only useful if they encompass the full spectrum of associations between hosts and parasites. A checklist of New Zealand fishes and their parasites has been published, but recent parasitological examinations of commercial fish species reveal that the checklist appears to be far from complete. We focused our current study on a comprehensive survey of macroparasites of a commercial species, the New Zealand sole (Peltorhamphus novaezeelandiae) off the coast of Otago, New Zealand. Specifically, we were expecting to recover marine tapeworms using sharks as their definitive hosts that are generally underreported in parasite surveys. The parasites recovered included tapeworms, flukes, round worms and thorny-headed worms. Surprisingly, a large proportion of the non-tapeworm parasites we recovered were not previously reported from this fish species. A discussion on the potential ecological roles played by this fish species in the transmission of parasites is included."	NonUS	Ecology
"This work seeks to simulate and examine the complex character of marine predation. By taking into account the interaction between phytoplankton and zooplankton, we present a sophisticated mathematical system with a general functional response describing the ecological competition. This system is disturbed by a novel category of perturbations in the hybrid form which simulates certain unstable climatic and environmental variations. We merge between the higher-order white noise and quadratic jumps to offer an excellent overview of the complexity induced in the ecosystem. Analytically, we offer a surrogate framework to get the sharp sill between stationarity and zooplankton eradication. Our analysis enriches and improves many works by proposing an unfamiliar form of perturbation and unifying the criteria of said asymptotic characteristics. Numerically, we probe the rigor of our sill in a non-standard case: cubic white noise and quadratic leaps. We demonstrate that the increased order of perturbation has a significant effect on the zooplankton living time. This result shows that the sources of intricate fluctuations carry out an active role in the transient dynamics of marine ecological systems."	NonUS	Ecology
"Ecological restoration commonly emphasizes reestablishing native plant communities. Implicit in this approach is the assumption that actively restoring plant communities can passively restore structure and function of other community components like wildlife. However, this assumption is rarely tested. We evaluated how plant restoration in grasslands of the northwestern United States affected the structure (composition and relative abundance) of native small mammal communities and the important functional role they play as seed predators. We quantified vegetation, small mammal community structure, small mammal seed predation, and effects of seed predation on native plant recruitment in comparable grasslands that were either native-dominated, planted with introduced forage grasses, or had undergone restoration treatments to suppress introduced grasses and increase native plants with and without supplemental watering. Native plant cover averaged >= 5 times higher at restoration sites relative to introduced grass sites. Small mammals, primarily deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), were least abundant in introduced grass sites and most abundant in water-supplemented restoration treatments, with intermediate levels in native and unwatered restoration sites. Seed offerings and seed sowing experiments indicated that seed predation and its effects on plant recruitment correlated with small mammal abundance, with effects generally weakest in introduced grass and strongest in restoration sites. Our results suggest that active plant restoration can passively restore the structure and function of native small mammal communities. While small mammal seed predation is a desired long-term function, it can also inhibit restoration efforts. We discuss emerging strategies for mitigating seed predation during restoration seeding."	USA	Ecology
"Capture and handling techniques for individual-based, long-term research that tracks the life history of animals by recapturing the same individuals for several years has vastly improved study inferences and our understanding of animal ecology. Yet there are corresponding risks to study animals associated with physical trauma or capture myopathy that can occur during or following capture events. Rarely has empirical evidence existed to guide decisions associated with understanding the magnitude of capture-related risks, how to reduce these risks when possible, and implications for mortality censoring and survival estimates. We used data collected from 2,399 capture events of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) via helicopter net-gunning to compare daily survival probabilities within a 10-week period centered on a capture event and evaluated how animal age, nutritional condition (body fat), and various handling methods influenced survival before, during, and following a capture event. Direct mortality resulting from capture efforts was 1.59%. Mean daily survival was 0.9993 +/- 0.0001 (SE) during the 5-week pre-capture window, was depressed the day of capture at 0.9841 +/- 0.0004, and rebounded to 0.9990 +/- 0.0008 during the 5-week post-capture window. Neither capture nor handling had a detectable effect on post-capture survival, including handling time (x over bar $\bar{x}$ = 13.30 +/- 1.87 min), capture time of year (i.e., Dec or Mar), tooth extraction, and the number of times an animal had been recaptured (2-17 times). Although mortality rate was slightly elevated during capture (resulting from physical trauma associated with capture), age and nutritional condition did not influence the probability of mortality during a capture event. Following a capture event, nutritional condition influenced survival; however, that relationship was consistent with expected effects of nutritional condition on winter survival and independent of capture and handling. Overall survival rates 5 weeks before capture and 5 weeks after capture were not different. A specified window of time with depressed survival following capture and handling was not evident, which contradicts the implementation of a predetermined window often used by researchers and managers for censoring mortalities that occur after capture. Previous notions that censorship of all mortality data in the 2 weeks following capture is unwarranted and risks removal of meaningful data. With previous evidence guiding our protocols for capture (e.g., reduced chase time) and handling (e.g., temperature mitigation), low direct mortality and almost undetectable indirect mortality post capture reinforces the efficacy of helicopter net-gunning for capture and recapture of mule deer in long-term, individual-based studies."	USA	Ecology
"Ungulates have undergone major declines in Central and West African forests as a result of bushmeat trade and habitat loss. Monitoring forest ungulate status is a critical conservation need. We undertook a systematic camera-trap survey of the 5260 km(2) Dja Faunal Reserve, Cameroon's largest protected area. We deployed cameras at 305 sites in eight grids across the reserve over 28,277 camera-trap days. We recorded 30,601 independent detections of 12 species of forest ungulate. The blue and Peters' duikers were the most abundant, accounting for 82% of all ungulate detections, both with occupancy >85% in all survey grids. The black-fronted duiker was relatively widespread but rare. The white-bellied duiker and water chevrotain were found mostly in the southern part of the reserve. There were very few detections of sitatunga, forest buffalo and bongo. Our results suggest ecological partitioning among the more abundant duikers based on activity pattern and body size. The reserve faces many pressures including illegal subsistence and commercial hunting. Community surveillance and partnerships, with improved law enforcement are among measures being implemented by the Cameroon government to enhance security and ensure retention of the reserve's World Heritage status."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"There are few detailed data for short-term (monthly) fluctuations in flowering and nectar availability at relatively large spatial scales. Such information is critical for understanding the governors of variation in flowering and for the management of floral resources assisting the persistence of nectar consumers in landscapes. To obtain monthly measurements of patterns of nectar availability in a 314,400 ha region, and to relate these patterns to potential environmental predictors. Flowering was measured at 83 sites in natural vegetation and in eight domestic gardens in subtropical, eastern Australia. A nectar-availability index was developed was based on nectarivore visitation rates and plant-specific flowering patterns. Spatial-temporal patterns were related to environmental variables using boosted regression trees. The large between-year variation was due mostly to irregular flowering by several eucalypt species. There was a 'lean season' in the austral spring (August-September). Coastal vegetation was an important source of nectar for much of the year, including the lean season. Gardens produced prolific nectar throughout the year, peaking in August-October. Nectar availability was most closely associated with primary productivity over the previous 12 months, average annual solar radiation, topographic wetness, and rainfall over the previous 6 months, although some relationships seemed counter-intuitive. There were large differences in nectar availabilities among broad vegetation types (especially rainforests vs. sclerophyllous forests), which partially accounted for the unintuitive results."	NonUS	Ecology
"Most of the diversity on coral reefs is in the cryptofauna, the hidden organisms that inhabit the interstitial spaces of corals and other habitat-forming benthos. However, little is known about the patterns and drivers of diversity in cryptofauna. We investigated how the cryptofaunal community associated with the branching coral Pocillopora meandrina varies across spatial scales and environmental gradients. We performed nondestructive visual surveys of the cryptofaunal community on 751 P. meandrina colonies around the island of O'ahu (30-73 colonies per site, 3-6 sites per region, five regions). We identified 91 species, including 48 fishes and 43 invertebrates. Most of these species were observed rarely, with only 19 species occurring on greater than 5% of surveyed colonies. Variation in community abundance and species richness was greatest at the scale of the coral colony and lowest at the site scale. Abundance and species richness increased with increasing colony size and maximum wave height, and decreased with increasing surface chlorophyll-a. In an analysis of species-specific responses, colony size, wave height, and chlorophyll-a were significant drivers of occurrence. Depth and percent live coral tissue were also identified as important correlates for community composition with distinct responses across taxa. Analyzing species-specific responses to environmental gradients documented a unique pattern for the guard crab Trapezia intermedia, which had a higher probability of occurring on smaller colonies (in contrast to 18 other common taxa). The results of a principal coordinates analysis on community composition and a co-occurrence analysis further supported T. intermedia as having a unique distribution across colonies, even in comparison with four other Trapezia species. Overall, these patterns emphasize the importance of host coral characteristics (i.e., colony size and percent live tissue) and physical characteristics of the surrounding habitat (i.e., wave energy, chlorophyll-a, and depth) in structuring cryptofaunal communities and characterize species-specific responses to environmental gradients."	USA	Biodiversity
"Lower to Middle Eocene outcrops of Naqusan section, located in the northwest of Tafresh, with a thickness of 110 meters chiefly encompasses sandy-marly limestone and tuff along with a low percentage of sedimentary rocks such as sandstone. Microfacies studies led to the identification of six carbonate microfacies related to three facies belts (shoal, lagoon and open marine). The general palaeogeographic context of this system was a marginal marine shelf setting with an inner platform that was very flat, ramp-like, with little topography but with local depressions. Regarding extensive presence of large benthic foraminifera and some algae, the studied section probably have been deposited in tropical waters."	NonUS	Ecology
"Hunter harvest of greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus; hereafter sage-grouse) has been regulated by wildlife agencies during most of the past century. Hunting season regulations were maintained with the intention of providing sustainable hunting opportunities. Sage-grouse populations oscillate over time, and population growth can be influenced by seasonal weather and habitat disturbance. From 1995-2013, we compared sage-grouse lek trends from 22 relatively distinct sage-grouse population segments in 9 western U.S. states and 2 Canadian provinces. We stratified these populations into 3 broad categories (non-hunted [n = 8], continuously hunted [n = 10], and hunting season discontinued between 1996-2003 [n = 4]) with 8 different regulation histories to evaluate the potential impact of harvest on sage-grouse populations. Concomitantly, we assessed the effects of proportion burned, forested and cropland habitat; winter, spring, and summer precipitation; and human population, road, and oil and gas well densities on initial and time-varying lek counts. Density-dependent models fit lek trend data best for all regulation histories. In general, higher proportions of burnt, forested, and cropland habitat; and greater human population and oil and gas well densities were associated with lower equilibrium abundance (K). We found mixed results regarding the effect of hunting regulations on instantaneous growth rate (r). The cessation of harvest from 1996-2001 in approximately half of the largest sage-grouse population in our analysis was associated with higher r. Continuously harvested sage-grouse populations with permit hunting seasons had higher r during years with higher proportion of area exposed to permitted hunting rather than general upland game seasons. However, more liberal hunting regulations were positively associated with higher r in populations continuously harvested under general upland game hunts. Our results suggest that discontinuing harvest in the largest population resulted in greater population growth rates; however, this was not consistently the case for smaller populations. To no surprise, not all sage-grouse populations were influenced by the same environmental change or human disturbance factors. Our results will assist managers to understand factors associated with K, which provides the best targets for conservation efforts."	USA	HumanWildlife
"There is widespread contemporary interest in causes and consequences of blood glucose status in humans (e.g., links to diabetes and cardiovascular disease), but we know comparatively less about what underlies variation in glucose levels of wild animals. Several environmental factors, including diet, disease status, and habitat quality, may regulate glucose circulation, and we are in need of work that assesses many organismal traits simultaneously to understand the plasticity and predictability of glucose levels in ecological and evolutionary contexts. Here, we measured circulating glucose levels in a species of passerine bird (the house finch, Haemorhous mexicanus) that has served as a valuable model for research on sexual selection, disease, and urban behavioral ecology, as these animals display sexually dichromatic ornamental coloration, harbor many infectious diseases (e.g., poxvirus, coccidiosis, mycoplasmal conjunctivitis), and reside in both natural habitats and cities. We tested the effects of sex, habitat type, body condition, coccidiosis and poxvirus infections, and expression of carotenoid plumage coloration on blood glucose concentrations and found that the body condition and poxvirus infection significantly predicted circulating glucose levels. Specifically, birds with higher blood glucose levels had higher body condition scores and were infected with poxvirus. This result is consistent with biomedical, domesticated-animal, and wildlife-rehabilitation findings, and the premise that glucose elevation is a physiological response to or indicator of infection and relative body weight. The fact that we failed to find links between glucose and our other measurements suggests that blood glucose levels can reveal some but not all aspects of organismal or environmental quality."	USA	Ecology
"A vast ocean rich with resources to maintain a sustainable livelihood surround Pacific Island Countries and Territories. In Fiji, coastal resources are a primary source of food, medicine, income and other necessities for livelihood security. Human-induced climate change places growing pressure on the quality of coastal resources due to the increased intensity and frequency of natural disasters like coastal erosion and flooding. Anthropogenic activities like coastal mining of earth minerals further threatens livelihood security with cumulative pressure on the coastal environment and its resources. This paper discusses the compounding impacts of mining in the flood-prone community of Vanua Votua in Ba (Fiji). They currently witness the degradation of their coastal environment and its resources (iqoliqoli). The people of Vanua Votua have a cultural and spiritual attachment to their coastal ecosystem as indigenous custodians. However, they are limited in their ability to conserve and protect their iqoliqoli due to an unfair legal duality of national coastal governance structures and processes between the state and indigenous custodians. We found that a central issue of coastal mining, governance, and the people's livelihood vulnerabilities, is Fiji's Mining Act [Cap 146] and associated environmental legislations and policies that consolidate much of the coastal governance authority with the state. The Fiji Mining Act is currently under review. This paper provides a timely case study using the Sustainable Livelihood Approach and the Vanua Research Framework, outlining the need for current and future legislation to be nuanced and sensitive to the realities of the local context."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Cumulative effects in the marine environment increase the risk of environmental, economic or social collapse because the combined effects of new and existing marine industries, climate change and other stressors are often not accounted for in the determination of environmental capacity. Ecosystem-based management and the development of tools that translate complex social-ecological processes into dynamic, adaptable management strategies are needed to avoid these pitfalls. Previous work has highlighted disconnects between how cumulative effects are interpreted and assessed by science agencies, funding agencies, and management agencies, but has largely missed how investors are interpreting them. These social-ecological boundary and threshold issues illuminate the pivotal challenge of institutional change and agency behaviors that are needed to address cumulative effects. Using scenario planning techniques, a team of researchers from the Sustainable Seas National Science Challenge in Aotearoa New Zealand engaged key decision makers and stakeholders in creative thinking and constructive conversation aimed at bridging some of these institutional and behavioral disconnects. A range of different strategies regarding how to address cumulative effects were proposed by the assembled participants, but the need for collaborative networks that enable collective thought and action across boundaries was emphasized throughout the day. This paper explores the themes that emerged and some of the barriers that must be addressed to facilitate bold action on the topic of cumulative effects."	NonUS	Ecology
"Contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) are prevalent in aquatic landscapes and may be a factor in population declines of aquatic and terrestrial fauna. Yet, there are limited data to assess the impacts of CECs to species. Understanding CEC impacts is particularly important for imperiled freshwater mussels which provide valuable ecosystem services. CEC exposure of freshwater mussels was characterized by evaluating sites with and without the federally endangered mussel (Villosa fabalis) in three subwatersheds of the Maumee River, Ohio, USA, a tributary of the Great Lakes Basin. Analyses of water, sediment, and tissue concentrations of two common mussels (Eurynia dilatata and Lampsilis cardium) indicated different CEC exposures across all 6 sites. Distinct CEC signatures were found across the three media types suggesting as mussels interact with water and sediment they may be experiencing different exposure concentrations and mixtures of CECs at different life stages. Of the 83 CECs which were detected, agricultural CECs dominated sediments, pharmaceuticals were common in tissues and water, and 16 of the 83 CECs were found co-occurring in mussel tissue, water, and sediment. There were no species differences in the CEC signatures indicating all mussels, including species of concern, may be experiencing similar exposure. Comparisons to known CEC standards indicate some exceedances in the Maumee watershed including locations of federally listed mussel species. This study provides evidence of the complexity of CEC mixes in a Great Lakes watershed and the need to understand how CECs impact declining aquatic fauna. (C) 2020 International Association for Great Lakes Research. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	USA	Ecology
"Environmental contaminants affect ecosystems worldwide and have deleterious effects on biota. Non-essential mercury (Hg) and lead (Pb) concentrations are well documented in some taxa and are described to cause multiple detrimental effects on human and wildlife. Additionally, essential selenium (Se) is known to be toxic at high concentrations but, at lower concentrations, Se can protect organisms against Hg toxicity. Crocodilians are known to bioaccumulate contaminants. However, the effects of these contaminants on physiological processes remain poorly studied. In the present study, we quantified Hg, Pb and Se concentrations in spectacled caimans (Caiman crocodilus) and investigated the effects of these contaminants on several physiological processes linked to osmoregulatory, hepatic, endocrine and renal functions measured through blood parameters in 23 individuals. Mercury was related to disruption of osmoregulation (sodium levels), hepatic function (alkaline phosphatase levels) and endocrine processes (corticosterone levels). Lead was related to disruption of hepatic functions (glucose and alanine aminotransferase levels). Selenium was not related to any parameters, but the Se:Hg molar ratio was positively related to the Na+ and corticosterone concentrations, suggesting a potential protective effect against Hg toxicity. Overall, our results suggest that Hg and Pb alter physiological mechanisms in wild caimans and highlight the need to thoroughly investigate the consequences of trace element contamination in crocodilians."	NonUS	Ecology
"Aim: Environmental DNA (eDNA) metabarcoding has demonstrated its applicability as a highly sensitive biomonitoring tool across small spatial and temporal scales in marine ecosystems. However, it has rarely been tested across large spatial scales or biogeographical barriers. Here, we scale up marine eDNA metabarcoding, test its ability to detect a major marine biogeographic break and evaluate its use as a regional biomonitoring tool in Australia. Location: North-western Australia (NWA). Methods: We applied metabarcoding assays targeting the mitochondrial 16S rRNA and CO1 genes to 284 surface seawater eDNA samples collected from 71 mid-shelf, inshore, coastal and nearshore estuarine sites over 700 km of the NWA coastline. Results: Metabarcoding detected a wide range of bony fish (404 taxa), elasmobranchs (44) and aquatic reptiles (5). We detected bioregional and depth differentiation within inshore bony fish communities. These findings support the presence of a marine biogeographic break, which is purported to occur in the vicinity of Cape Leveque, demarcating the border between the Kimberley and Canning bioregions. Inshore bony fish and elasmobranch communities, as well as coastal bony fish assemblages, were additionally found to differ between the South and North Kimberley regions suggesting previously unrecognized subregional differentiation amongst these taxa. The overall compositional data have been used to update distribution information for a number of endangered, elusive and data-deficient taxa, including sawfish (family: Pristidae), northern river shark (Glyphis garricki) and wedgefish (genus: Rhynchobatus). Main conclusions: eDNA metabarcoding demonstrated a high level of sensitivity that was able to discern fine-scale patterns across the large-scale, remote and oceanographically complex region of North-western Australia. Importantly, this study highlights the potential of integrating broad-scale eDNA metabarcoding alongside other baseline surveys and long-term monitoring approaches, which are crucial for the sustainable management and conservation of marine biodiversity in this unique marine region."	NonUS	Conservation
"Sediments of Yellow Sea dumping sites (YSDS) collected in 2015 were analyzed using the European Community Bureau of Reference (BCR) sequential extraction method to assess the contamination and potential risk to the environment. Cr, Ni, Cu, and Zn exhibited the most dominant residual fraction, whereas Cd was mostly in the exchangeable fraction and Pb in the reducible fraction. Cr contains a significant amount of oxidizable fraction in the dumping area due to the dumping of tannery sludge with high concentrations of Cr, mainly in the organic matter-bound form. The global contamination factor (GCF) showed that high non-residual fractions of Cd and Pb contributed considerably to contamination. Nevertheless, modified potential ecological risk index (MRI) suggested low ecological risk for metals in YSDS because of the low total content of Cd and the small mobile fraction of other metals."	NonUS	Ecology
"Estimates of abundance and their changes through time are key elements of marine mammal conservation and management. Absolute marine mammal abundance in a region of the open ocean is often difficult to attain. However, methods of estimating their abundance based on passive acoustic recordings are becoming increasingly employed. This study shows that passive acoustic monitoring of North Atlantic minke whales with a single hydrophone provides sufficient information to estimate relative population abundance. An automated detector was developed for minke whale pulse trains and an approach for converting its output into a relative abundance index is proposed by accounting for detectability as well as false positives and negatives. To demonstrate this technique, a 2 y dataset from the seven sites of the Atlantic Deepwater Ecosystem Observatory Network project on the U.S. east coast was analyzed. Resulting relative abundance indices confirm pulse train-calling minke whale presence in the deep waters of the outer continental shelf. The minkes are present December through April annually with the highest abundance near the site offshore of Savannah, Georgia. (c) 2021 Acoustical Society of America."	NonUS	Technology
"The protection of marine biodiversity is considered a global priority, as exemplified in the Convention on Biological Diversity's Aichi targets and in Sustainable Development Goal 14. Marine protected areas (MPAs) are considered to be effective conservation and fisheries management tools that generate various ecological and social-economic benefits. MPAs come in all types and sizes, and are managed following different principles, users' needs, and preferences. Madagascar's unique marine biodiversity is currently protected under a range of MPA regimes that emerged comparatively recently, long after the terrestrial protected areas. This study describes the historical outline of the MPA development process in Madagascar, and proposes inputs for the future management of MPAs. A policy arrangement approach to structure an iterative Delphi survey was used to analyse how discourse, actors, rules and resources have shaped MPA development in Madagascar. The findings suggest that international initiatives and funding have played a key role in the early days of MPA emergence, while currently co-management between governmental and non-governmental actors shows mixed results regarding conservation effectiveness. Challenges include a better coordination of efforts among various stakeholders, granting a large responsibility to local communities, e.g. in the successful locally managed marine areas (LMMAs), and integrating customary law into the set of regulations for marine conservation and sustainable management in Madagascar."	NonUS	Conservation
"The number of subsea cables in the marine environment is likely to grow substantially in the near future. Arrays of energy-generating windmills or wave power generators are planned for installation in the coastal waters of many countries worldwide. The electricity generated by these and other marine energy sources will be transported to shore through cables with the current and voltage creating electromagnetic fields (EMFs). Furthermore, there are also plans for the installation of undersea cables to interconnect countries and islands for the purpose of sharing power and communications. These also will generate EMFs in the marine environment. While shielding can negate the presence of direct electric fields, induced electric and magnetic fields readily penetrate into the water column. Cables carrying electric current produce anomalies in the earth's main field, which could have the potential for disrupting the migrations of fishes and diverse marine animals that rely on magnetic cues for orientation or navigation. Studies designed to test how these anthropogenic magnetic fields disrupt magnetic orientation have only recently started to be conducted. Given the cultural, economic, and conservation value of many of the species potentially at risk, such work should be immediately prioritized."	USA	Technology
"The evaluation index system of ecological security of marine ranching (MRES) is based on the assumption that there is independence among evaluation indexes in the existing studies, which ignores the complex interactive paths of marine ranching as an artificial ecosystem. In this study, the MRES evaluation network model that includes interdependent relationships is established based on the Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response model and the analytic network process method. Then, the probabilistic linguistic term sets and analytic network process methods are used to calculate the weights of the evaluation indexes of MRES. The overall evaluation value and the contribution rate of clusters are consequently defined and analyzed to reflect the performance of MRES. Finally, a case study is carried out for evaluating the MRES of marine ranches in Rongcheng by means of the proposed method. The conclusions are summarized as follows: (1) The weights of clusters are ranked as Responses > Impact > Driver > State > Pressure, and scientific management of fishery resources is the most important index; (2) the MRES performance of marine ranches in the city of Rongcheng is at the medium security grade on the whole, and all 11 samples are driven by the response."	NonUS	Technology
"Microplastics (MPs, particles < 5 mm) represent an emerging global environmental concern, having been detected in multiple aquatic species. However, very little is known about the presence of MPs in higher trophic level species, including cetaceans. We worked with community based monitors and Inuvialuit hunters from Tuktoyaktuk (Northwest Territories, Canada) to sample seven beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) in 2017 and 2018. Microplastics were detected in the gastrointestinal tracts in every whale. We estimate that each whale contained 18 to 147 MPs in their GI tract (average of 97 +/- 42 per individual). FTIR-spectroscopy revealed over eight plastic polymer types, with nearly half being polyester. Fibres made up 49% of MPs. The diversity of MP shapes and polymeric identities in beluga points to a complex source scenario, and ultimately raises questions regarding the significance and long-term exposure of this pollutant in this ecologically and culturally valuable species."	NonUS	Ecology
"Organisms are exposed to mixtures of both known and unknown chemicals which are diverse and variable, and thus difficult and costly to characterise and monitor using traditional target analyses. The objective of this study was to validate and apply in vitro effect-based methods by which whole blood can be used to screen internal exposure to such complex chemical mixtures. For this study, we used whole blood of green sea turtles (Chelonia mydas). To ensure the chemical mixture in blood is transferred with minimal losses or bias, we tested a modified QuEChERS extraction method specifically developed for multi-and non-target instrument analysis. The extracts were dosed to a battery of in vitro bioassays (AhR-CAFLUX, AREc32, NF kappa B-bla, VM7Luc4E2, Microtox), each with a different mode of action (e.g., AhR receptor mediated xenobiotics, NrF2-mediated oxidative stress, NF kappa B-mediated response to inflammation, estrogen activity and baseline toxicity oxidative stress, respectively) in order to cover a wide spectrum of chemicals. Results confirmed the absence of interferences of the blood extract with the responses of the different assays, thus indicating the methods' compatibility with effect-based screening approaches. To apply this approach, whole blood samples were collected from green turtles foraging in agricultural, urban and remote areas of the Australian Great Barrier Reef. The effect-based screening revealed significant differences in exposure, with higher induction of AhR-CAFLUX, AREc32 and Microtox assays in turtles from the agricultural foraging ground. Overall, these results corroborated with concurrent health, target and non-target analyses in the same animals performed as part of a larger program. This study provides evidence that the proposed effect-based approach is suitable for screening and evaluating internal exposure of organisms to chemical mixtures. The approach could be valuable for advancing understanding on multiple levels ranging from identification of priority chemicals in effect-directed investigations to exploring relationships between exposure and disease, not only in sea turtles, but in any organism. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"The study and conservation of biological communities, such as coral reefs, frequently requires repeated surveys to measure the growth of organisms or the occurrence of ecological processes, such as recruitment, predation, competition, or mortality. In the case of coral reefs, processes influencing coral community structure occur on time scales of days (recruitment, predation), months (seasonal environmental stress), or years (competition for space). In both marine and terrestrial systems, observing the ecology of remote locations at fine temporal scales is made difficult by the high cost or complexity of resurveying the same location at high frequency. These restrictions have produced limited understanding of in-situ ecological processes which occur at fine temporal scales and influence community structure but are easily missed during infrequent surveys. We present a low-cost method for the conversion of consumer cameras into programmable time-lapse platforms, allowing scheduled daily video or photo capture in remote locations for extended time periods. Results of a 1-month deployment with twice-daily photo capture are presented. Total cost to construct and deploy CoralCam in-situ (up to 45 m) is approximately $80 USD, providing a low-cost platform for fine scale data collection where these data are not otherwise logistically or financially possible. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd."	USA	Technology
"The influence of weather on wildlife populations has been documented for many species; however, much of the current literature has focused on the effects of weather within a season and consists of short-term studies. The use of long-term datasets that cover a variety of environmental conditions will be essential for assessing possible carry-over effects of weather experienced in one season on behavior and fitness in subsequent seasons. In this study, we evaluated the effects of weather variables measured over multiple temporal scales on the reproductive performance and behavior of greater prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus cupido) in Osage County, Oklahoma, USA, from 2011-2019. Considering weather over a range of temporal extents allowed us to determine the relative importance of short-term weather events, such as daily temperature and precipitation, versus more chronic shifts in weather such as persistent drought on the reproductive performance of greater prairie-chickens. We used an information-theoretic model building approach to develop models describing the effects of daily weather variables and drought conditions on daily nest survival, nest incubation start dates, and clutch size. Daily nest survival was primarily influenced by conditions experienced during incubation with daily nest success declining in years with wetter than average springs and during extreme precipitation events. Daily nest survival also declined under higher maximum daily temperatures, especially in years with below-average rainfall. Greater prairie-chickens began nesting earlier and had smaller clutch sizes for initial nests and renests in years with warmer temperatures prior to the nesting season. Additionally, incubation of nests started later in drought years, indicating carry-over effects in greater prairie-chicken reproductive behaviors. Our work shows that if the weather in the Great Plains becomes more variable, with increasing frequency of drought and extreme precipitation events, wildlife species that inhabit these grassland landscapes will likely experience changes in reproduction, potentially influencing future populations. (c) 2020 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Ecology
"The impact of fish escaping from fish farms may depend on the extent to which escapees adapt to the natural environment, resemble wild conspecifics, and become feral. Yet, little is known about the process of feralization in marine fish. We examined phenotypic changes in body shape, body condition, and scale growth profiles of sea bass escaping from fish farms in the Canary Islands and quantified the extent to which escapees had diverged from farmed conspecifics. Most feral sea bass had sizes that overlapped with those of farmed fish, indicating that they had escaped throughout the production cycle. However, 29% of escapees were larger than the maximum size at harvesting, indicating growth in the wild. Analysis of scale growth profiles showed that some escapees had grown in the wild as fast as cultured fish, albeit at more variable growth rates. Feral sea bass tended to converge towards a similar body shape, having more streamlined bodies, lower body condition, and lower hepatosomatic indices (HSI) than fish in cages. Although our study cannot discriminate between phenotypic plasticity and differential mortality of escapees, we interpret phenotypic convergence as the likely result of a period of initial starvation, phenotypic plasticity, and selection against maladapted phenotypes. Our results warn against the risks of rearing sea bass in open net cages and suggest that sea bass escapees could pose a threat to shallow coastal assemblages, particularly in areas where the species is not naturally found."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Norwegian fish farms are expanding into more exposed sites due to a lack of sheltered coastal locations and growing negative ecological consequences close to land. The severe wave and current conditions, irregular and often high winds, sheer remoteness, and limited weather window amplify the hazards during aquaculture operations. This paper presents a methodology for identifying hazards in aquaculture operations that take into account risks to personnel, material assets, the environment, fish welfare and food safety. The methodology considers the marine fish farm, its support service systems, external agents impacts, potential environmental disturbance and the likelihood of hazard interactions, and fish in the cage. The methodology has been used to analyse a net-cleaning operation, and the results show that it provides a good overview of hazards in a specific operation. The operator can have a better understanding of the nature of the operation to be better prepared for what can go wrong. The paper concludes that the risk assessment framework for aquaculture operation needs to be holistic to take into account multiple dimensions of risk, and the proposed methodology serves a good basis to develop the framework further. The paper also brings up the necessity to investigate further the definition of major accident and major accident hazards in aquaculture, especially for exposed fish farms that are exposed to different hazards comparing to the coastal fish farms today."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Marine environmental DNA (eDNA) is an important tool for biodiversity research and monitoring but challenges remain in scaling surveys over large spatial areas, and increasing the frequency of sampling in remote locations at reasonable cost. Here we demonstrate the feasibility of sampling from commercial vessels (Mediterranean ferries) while underway, as a strategy to facilitate replicable, systematic marine eDNA surveys in locations that would normally be challenging and expensive for researchers to access. Sixteen eDNA samples were collected from four fixed sampling stations, and in response to four cetacean sightings, across three cruises undertaken along the 300 km ferry route between Livorno (Tuscany) and Golfo Aranci (Sardinia) in the Ligurian/Tyrrhenian Seas, June-July 2018. Using 12SrDNA and 16SrDNA metabarcoding markers, we recovered diverse marine vertebrate Molecular Operational Taxonomic Units (MOTUs) from teleost fish, elasmobranchs, and cetaceans. We detected sample heterogeneity consistent with previously known variation in species occurrences, including putative species spawning peaks associated with specific sea surface temperature ranges, and increased night time abundance of bathypelagic species known to undertake diel migrations through the water column. We suggest commercial vessel based marine eDNA sampling using the global shipping network has potential to facilitate broad-scale biodiversity monitoring in the world's oceans."	NonUS	Technology
"Aim To address the uncertainty associated with climate-driven biogeographical changes in commercial fisheries species through an ensemble species distribution modelling (SDM) approach. Location Northeast US Continental Shelf Large Marine Ecosystem (NEUS-LME). Methods We combined an ensemble SDM platform (BIOMOD 2) and a high-resolution global climate model (NOAA GFDL CM2.6) to quantify spatiotemporal changes in habitat of two commercially important species in the Northeast US Continental Shelf Large Marine Ecosystem (NEUS-LME); American lobster (Homarus americanus); and sea scallop (Placopecten magellanicus). An ensemble SDM was calibrated using multi-decadal fisheries-independent surveys (1984-2016). Statistically weighted species-specific ensemble SDM outputs were combined with 80 years of projected bottom temperature and salinity changes in response to a high greenhouse gas emissions scenario (an annual 1% increase in atmospheric CO2). Results Statistically significant changes (p < .05) in habitat suitability for both species were found over a large portion of the study area. Sea scallop undergoes a northward shift over the study period, while American lobster moves further offshore. The ensemble projections showed that several management zones were identified with increases and decreases in species-specific habitat. Uncertainty due to variations in ensemble member models was also found in the direction of change within each management zone. Main conclusions This study provides ensemble estimates of climate-driven changes and associated uncertainties in the biogeography of two economically important species in the United States. Projected climate change in the NEUS-LME will pose management challenges, and our ensemble projections provide useful information for climate-ready management of commercial fisheries."	USA	ClimateChange
"Requirements for a fishery to achieve Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification include demonstrating that targeted populations ('MSC stocks') are fished at sustainable levels. The credibility of this claim can be evaluated by comparing estimated abundance of MSC stocks to benchmarks based on sustainability criteria. Additionally, to evaluate whether MSC certification provides a meaningful distinction, the sustainability status of MSC stocks can be compared with that of populations without a linked certificate ('non-MSC stocks'). It is expected that MSC stocks are more likely to be maintained at levels of high abundance relative to sustainability benchmarks compared to non-MSC stocks. Similarly, it is expected that MSC stocks are less likely to become overfished, and if they do become overfished, that fisheries are incentivised to aid in their rebuilding to avoid suspension of certification. We compare published biomass estimates relative to biological reference points between MSC stocks and non-MSC stocks of wild-caught marine fish and invertebrate species around the world. These are observational data, and though we control for the propensity of certification, certification is not independent of relative biomass and therefore we describe associations rather than causal influences. Individual stocks from both groups were highly variable in relative biomass trends over the past two decades, with substantial overlap in the distributions of MSC and non-MSC stocks. In recent years (2014-2018), MSC stocks had, on average, greater biomass relative to biomass at maximum sustainable yield (B-MSY) than non-MSC stocks. MSC stocks were also less frequently overfished compared to non-MSC stocks, with estimated biomass below a limit reference point (B-lim) for 9% of MSC stocks and for 26-33% of non-MSC stocks. Eight MSC stocks currently or previously certified and defined as overfished in 2017 or 2018 had previously entered the program based on scientific advice available at the time indicating they were fished within sustainable limits. Subsequently, when revised stock assessments estimated the biomass to be lower than previously thought, fisheries for those stocks were suspended from certification. Together, these results suggest that eco-certification is associated with a credible claim on sustainable stock status and provides a useful distinction from other seafood. Further, our results show how the rare exceptions to this pattern may arise from retrospective changes in scientific advice."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Premise Gesneria pauciflora is a rare, threatened plant in riparian forests. Periodic disturbances, expected in this habitat, could influence demographic dynamics on plant populations, yet their impact may not be the same across the watershed. We hypothesized that differences in disturbances between the main channel and tributaries may lead to spatial dissimilarities in population growth rate (lambda), structure, and fecundity. Methods In the Maricao River Watershed in Puerto Rico, 1277 plants were tagged and monitored for 1.5 years. Every 6 months, we measured plant size and recorded survival, fecundity, and appearance of seedlings. These variables were used in integral projection models to assess the population status of G. pauciflora. Results Plants in the main channel were smaller but more likely to flower and fruit than those in the tributaries. Overall mortality was greater in the main channel and greater during the rainy season. At both sites, lambda ranged from 0.9114 to 0.9865, and survival/growth of larger plants had a greater effect on lambda (>0.90) regardless of site. Conclusions Values for population growth rates suggest that G. pauciflora is declining across the watershed. Higher mortality rates in the main channel (more-perturbed sites) might drive G. pauciflora to reproduce at smaller sizes, while tributaries (less-perturbed sites) might be better for growth and lead to larger plant sizes. Extreme climatic events are expected to increase in the Caribbean and might decrease the population if the population is left unmanaged. Management strategies that reduce the time plants require to reach larger sizes might be necessary to increase lambda, and reintroduction using cuttings might be a possible solution."	USA	Ecology
"Background: Piroplasms are vector-borne intracellular hemoprotozoan parasites that infect wildlife and livestock. Wildlife species are reservoir hosts to a diversity of piroplasms and play an important role in the circulation, maintenance and evolution of these parasites. The potential for likely spillover of both pathogenic and non-pathogenic piroplasm parasites from wildlife to livestock is underlined when a common ecological niche is shared in the presence of a competent vector. Method: To investigate piroplasm diversity in wildlife and the cattle population of the greater Kafue ecosystem, we utilized PCR to amplify the 18S rRNA V4 hyper-variable region and meta-barcoding strategy using the Illumina MiSeq sequencing platform and amplicon sequence variant (ASV)-based bioinformatics pipeline to generate high-resolution data that discriminate sequences down to a single nucleotide difference. Results: A parasite community of 45 ASVs corresponding to 23 species consisting of 4 genera of Babesia, Theileria, Hepatozoon and Colpodella, were identified in wildlife and the cattle population from the study area. Theileria species were detected in buffalo, impala, hartebeest, sable antelope, sitatunga, wild dog and cattle. In contrast, Babesia species were only observed in cattle and wild dog. Our results demonstrate possible spillover of these hemoprotozoan parasites from wildlife, especially buffalo, to the cattle population in the wildlife-livestock interface. Conclusion: We demonstrated that the deep amplicon sequencing of the 18S rRNA V4 hyper-variable region for wildlife was informative. Our results illustrated the diversity of piroplasma and the specificity of their hosts. They led us to speculate a possible ecological cycle including transmission from wildlife to domestic animals in the greater Kafue ecosystem. Thus, this approach may contribute to the establishment of appropriate disease control strategies in wildlife-livestock interface areas."	NonUS	Ecology
"occurrence patterns of species can appear through niche-related processes such as (i) environmental filtering matching specific sets of traits to a given environment, and (ii) limiting similarity selecting divergent functional traits to reduce niche overlap. Locally, both processes should act together to shape the distribution of species. We evaluated the importance of environmental variables and functional distinctiveness to the co-occurrence patterns of nine marine catfishes in the inner estuary of the Amazon River mouth. Sampling was carried out in the dry seasons of 1996 and 1997, and the rainy season of 1996 by nearly 120 standardized bottom trawls per expedition. We observed 13 significant pairs of segregated species and two pairs of aggregated species, which sum 41.7% of all combinations. Amphiarius phrygiatus and Sciades couma segregated from all the remaining marine catfishes by occupying shallower areas with lower salinity levels. Aggregated pairs were strongly associated with higher functional distinctiveness. We concluded that environmental filtering is the main force structuring the cooccurrence patterns by promoting spatial segregation, but functional distinctiveness allowed some species to aggregate."	NonUS	Ecology
"This paper examines the governance of Cabo de Palos-Islas Hormigas (CPHMPA) and Cabo de Gata-Nijar (CGNMPA) Marine Protected Areas, Spain. The governance approach adopted in CPHMPA is shared authority between regional and state governments, whereas in CGNMPA it is state-led. In each MPA, limited coordination between national and regional government, and weak management at both levels, has made achievement of strategic conservation objectives significantly more challenging. Inconsistencies in legislation applied to internal and territorial waters have left both MPAs vulnerable to local economic development priorities. The reliance on economic and legal incentives has increased employment opportunities within the communities studied, but has also incurred environmental and social costs. Overall, the authors conclude that the current governance approaches are insufficient to effectively address all the challenges faced. In order to achieve more effective and equitable outcomes for both MPAs, greater coordination between national and regional government is required, along with interventions to introduce more participative and knowledge incentives to generate a greater sense of stewardship among all stakeholders."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Saline tolerant mangrove forests partake in vital biogeochemical cycles. However, they are endangered due to deforestation as a result of urbanization. In this study, we have carried out a metagenomic snapshot of the mangrove ecosystem from five countries to assess its taxonomic, functional and antibiotic resistome structure. Chao1 alpha diversity varied significantly (P < 0.001) between the countries (Brazil, Saudi Arabia, China, India and Malaysia). All datasets were composed of 33 phyla dominated by eight major phyla covering >90% relative abundance. Comparative analysis of mangrove with terrestrial and marine ecosystems revealed the strongest heterogeneity in the mangrove microbial community. We also observed that the mangrove community shared similarities to both the terrestrial and marine microbiome, forming a link between the two contrasting ecosystems. The antibiotic resistant genes (ARG) resistome was comprised of nineteen level 3 classifications dominated by multidrug resistance efflux pumps (46.7 +/- 4.3%) and BlaR1 family regulatory sensor-transducer disambiguation (25.2 +/- 4.8%). ARG relative abundance was significantly higher in Asian countries and in human intervention datasets at a global scale. Our study shows that the mangrove microbial community and its antibiotic resistance are affected by geography as well as human intervention and are unique to the mangrove ecosystem. Understanding changes in the mangrove microbiome and its ARG is significant for sustainable development and public health."	NonUS	Ecology
"Knowing the reproductive biology and population dynamics of invasive species are essential for environmental conservation and protection of native species. The success of these invasive species is directly linked to their reproductive strategy. Therefore, this study aimed to describe the reproductive cycles and evaluate population parameters of the invasive bivalves Mytilopsis sallei and Isognomon bicolor, and to estimate if those characteristics would favor their population growths in the northeast coast of Brazil. The bivalves were sampled monthly from June 2016 to May 2017, respectively from the Sanhau ' a River estuary and Jacarape ' beach, State of Paraiba, Northeast Brazil. Through histological analyses, reproductive parameters were determined in order to identify sex, gonadal development, minimum size at maturity, and mean gonadal index. The asymptotic growth (L infinity) and growth rate (K) parameters were estimated using the von Bertalanffy growth curve, and recruitment patterns and cohorts were projected based on shell length frequency distributions. Mytilopsis sallei presented more than 50% spawning individuals in most months, while animals showing gametogenic gonads were predominant during the season of greatest precipitation. Isognomon bicolor had ripe gonads (about 30%) and spawning individuals (more than 40%) in all months of the year, but unlike M. sallei, it had the highest concentration of ripe individuals in the months of greatest precipitation. Both species showed equal and high growth rates (K = 1.1 yr-1) and analysis of the cohorts indicated that these populations are established and expanding. The results confirmed the great invasive potential of the two species in their local environments (estuary and marine) in Northeast Brazil and, therefore, their harmful potential for the conservation of native species and the environment in the invaded areas."	NonUS	Ecology
"Mutualism is a form of symbiosis whereby both parties benefit from the relationship. An example is cleaning symbiosis, which has been observed in terrestrial and marine environments. The most recognized form of marine cleaning symbiosis is that of cleaner fishes and their clients. Cleaner species set up cleaning stations on the reef, and other species seek out their services. However, it is not well understood how the presence of cleaning stations influence movements of large highly mobile species. We examined the role of cleaning stations as a driver of movement and habitat use in a mobile client species. Here, we used a combination of passive acoustic telemetry and in-water surveys to investigate cleaning station attendance by the reef manta ray Mobula alfredi. We employed a novel approach in the form of a fine-scale acoustic receiver array set up around a known cleaning area and tagged 42 rays. Within the array, we mapped structural features, surveyed the distribution of cleaner wrasse, and observed the habitat use of the rays. We found manta ray space use was significantly associated with blue-streak cleaner wrasse Labroides dimidiatus distribution and hard coral substrate. Cleaning interactions dominated their habitat use at this site, taking precedence over other life history traits such as feeding and courtship. This study has demonstrated that cleaning symbiosis is a driver for highly mobile, and otherwise pelagic, species to visit inshore reef environments. We suggest that targeted and long-term use of specific cleaning stations reflects manta rays having a long-term memory and cognitive map of some shallow reef environments where quality cleaning is provided. We hypothesize that animals prefer cleaning sites in proximity to productive foraging regions."	NonUS	Ecology
"The Galapagos Archipelago and Galapagos Marine Reserve lie 1000 km off the coast of Ecuador and are among the world's most iconic wildlife refuges. However, plastic litter is now found even in this remote island archipelago. Prior to this study, the sources of this plastic litter on Galapagos coastlines were unidentified. Local sources are widely expected to be small, given the limited population and environmentally conscious tourism industry. Here, we show that remote sources of plastic pollution are also fairly localised and limited to nearby fishing regions and South American and Central American coastlines, in particular northern Peru and southern Ecuador. Using virtual floating plastic particles transported in high-resolution ocean surface currents, we analysed the plastic origin and fate using pathways and connectivity between the Galapagos region and the coastlines as well as known fishery locations around the east Pacific Ocean. We also analysed how incorporation of wave-driven currents (Stokes drift) affects these pathways and connectivity. We found that only virtual particles that enter the ocean from Peru, Ecuador, and (when waves are not taken into account) Colombia can reach the Galapagos region. It takes these particles a few months to travel from their coastal sources on the American continent to the Galapagos region. The connectivity does not seem to vary substantially between El Nino and La Nina years. Identifying these sources and the timing and patterns of the transport can be useful for identifying integrated management opportunities to reduce plastic pollution from reaching the Galapagos Archipelago."	NonUS	Ecology
"A growing literature examines conditions under which financial incentives for behavior change can undermine crowd out or reinforce (crowd in) other sources of motivation for the behavior in question. Some of this literature points to a potential role of social norms, but it has not attempted to quantify that role. We present an interdisciplinary model from economics and communication science that measures the effects of financial incentives on social norms and their joint effects on behavior, including after incentives have ended. In a framed field experiment with Tibetan herders in Qinghai, China, we find that a temporary payment for participation in a patrol against illegal wildlife trapping reinforces a perceived injunctive norm that this conservation behavior meets with social approval. This norm remains heightened even after the payment has ended, continuing to positively influence the decision to participate in anti-trapping patrols in the experiment. This finding suggests that, under certain circumstances, a carefully framed incentive for conservation behavior can support injunctive norms in favor of conservation behavior."	USA	Conservation
"Knowledge of zooplankton in situ diet is critical for accurate assessment of marine ecosystem function and structure, but due to methodological constraints, there is still a limited understanding of ecological networks in marine ecosystems. Here, we used DNA-metabarcoding to study trophic interactions, with the aim to unveil the natural diet of zooplankton species under temporal variation of food resources. Several target consumers, including copepods and cladocerans, were investigated by sequencing 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes to identify prokaryote and eukaryote potential prey present in their guts. During the spring phytoplankton bloom, we found a dominance of diatom and dinoflagellate trophic links to copepods. During the summer period, zooplankton including cladocerans showed a more diverse diet dominated by cyanobacteria and heterotrophic prey. Our study suggests that copepods present trophic plasticity, changing their natural diet over seasons, and adapting their feeding strategies to the available prey spectrum, with some species being more selective. We did not find a large overlap of prey consumed by copepods and cladocerans, based on prey diversity found in their guts, suggesting that they occupy different roles in the trophic web. This study represents the first molecular approach to investigate several zooplankton-prey associations under seasonal variation, and highlights how, unlike other techniques, the diversity coverage is high when using DNA, allowing the possibility to detect a wide range of trophic interactions in plankton communities."	NonUS	Technology
"Determining how, when, and why energy allocation occurs based on different life history traits, provides core knowledge for understanding evolution, ecology, and conservation of populations. We assumed that, in seasonal environments, Anodontites trapesialis, a common freshwater mussel in the Pantanal wetland, has to time its maturation, its larvae incubation time, and adjusts its breeding strategy seasonally. From histological analyses of gametes, larval count, and marginal increment of the shell rings, we present information about phenology and growth strategies to investigate the influence of environment and reproductive period on growth. We determined for the first time, asymptotic maximum size and longevity for this mussel. This species is a functional hermaphrodite, with maturation and spawning starting at the end of the flood period, when the water begins to recede and fishes return to the main river channel. The larvae, lasidium in this case, disperse on host fishes at this time. As we predicted, the flood pulse is the main regulatory factor to the growth patterns and reproductive period establishment. The species' life history traits are discussed in the context of life history theory as adaptive responses to the dynamic balance imposed by the seasonality of the Pantanal."	NonUS	Ecology
"Chitin deacetylases are a group of enzymes catalysing the conversion of chitin to chitosan. Obtaining chitosan with established deacetylation degree and pattern is important for biomedical and biotechnological applications. Understandings of the structural properties of chitin deacetylases and the specificity of their interactions with chitin may conduct to the control of the pattern of deacetylation of chitosan. Our study is focused on the characterization and comparison of the structural and physicochemical properties of chitin deacetylases from fungi and marine bacteria. Despite the low sequences identity for the investigated chitin deacetylases, there are amino acids belonging to their active sites that are strongly conserved. Moreover, they reveal an increased structural similarity of their catalytic domains, reflecting the common biological function of these enzymes. The studied enzymes present dissimilar local physicochemical properties of their catalytic cavities that could be responsible of their distinct deacetylation patterns. Molecular docking studies reflect that deacetylation efficiency is also distinct for the chitin and partially deacetylated chitin oligomers and that N-acetylglucosamine units and some partially deacetylated chitin oligomers could have inhibitory effect against chitin deacetylases belonging to fungi and marine bacteria. (C) 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Technology
"To understand the functioning and dynamics of microbial communities is a fundamental challenge in current biology. To tackle this challenge, the construction of computational models of interacting microbes is an indispensable tool. There is, however, a large chasm between ecologically motivated descriptions of microbial growth used in many current ecosystems simulations, and detailed metabolic pathway and genome-based descriptions developed in the context of systems and synthetic biology. Here, we seek to demonstrate how resource allocation models of microbial growth offer the potential to advance ecosystem simulations and their parametrization. In particular, recent work on quantitative resource allocation allow us to formulate mechanistic models of microbial growth that are physiologically meaningful while remaining computationally tractable. These models go beyond Michaelis-Menten and Monod-type growth models, and are capable of accounting for emergent properties that underlie the remarkable plasticity of microbial growth. We outline the utility and advantages of using biochemical resource allocation models by considering a coarse-grained model of cyanobacterial growth and demonstrate how the model allows us to address specific questions of relevance for the simulation of marine microbial ecosystems, including the physiological acclimation of protein expression to different environments, the description of co-limitation by several nutrients and the differential use of alternative nutrient sources, as well as the description of metabolic diversity based on our increasing knowledge about quantitative cell physiology."	NonUS	Technology
"Context Modifications in natural landcover generally result in a loss of habitat availability for wildlife and it's persistence will depend largely on their spatial configuration and functional connections. Argenteohyla siemersi is a threatened and endemic amphibian whose habitat is composed of forest patches near rivers and water bodies edges. Objectives This study aimed to analyse the accessible habitat for this species and identify key elements to maintain its ecological network in two different types of land uses: an anthropized area with extensive cattle raising and a protected area. Methods The structural and functional characteristics of both landscapes were analyzed. The connectivity at landscape level and the contribution of each habitat patch were evaluated through simulation models with different dispersion distances in the context of the graph theory. Results In both landscapes, nine types of landcover were identified with different compositions. Remarkable differences were found in habitat connectivity for this amphibian species between both landscapes. As the percentage of dispersion distance increases, reachable habitat increases as well, although with higher percentages in the protected area. Two corridors were identified in the protected landscape and one in the rangeland one; patches and key links constituted all of them. Conclusions The present work provides spatially explicit results with a quantitative basis. It could be useful as a tool for the development of management plans aimed at guaranteeing the functionality of the ecological network for this endangered species and, therefore, contribute to its long-term conservation."	NonUS	Conservation
"Human-elephant conflict is a common conservation problem throughout Africa, but poorly studied where forest elephants (Loxodonta cyclotis) occur. Here, we investigated people's perceptions towards the impact of elephants around Nouabale-Ndoki National Park, northern Congo. We aimed to understand the perceptual differences amongst residents of four villages that varied substantially in the degree of conservation benefits received. We used a multivariate analysis to investigate how socio-economic variables, such as employment, wealth, education and ethnicity, influenced perceptions. Using both quantitative and qualitative data, we found that the majority of respondents experienced elephant impacts, mainly through crop raiding. Residents of the village where the local conservation project is based had significantly more positive perceptions of elephants, whereas perceptions of farmers were mostly negative. We identified some misunderstandings regarding the responsibilities of elephant impact mitigation regarding benefit sharing, stakeholder involvement and lawbreaking, but also willingness to apply mitigation measures. To mitigate the prevalent impact of elephants, a comprehensive approach of measuring impact, exploring community-based mitigating strategies and understanding of the root causes of the conflict is crucial. We propose a long-term programme within logging concessions organizing groups of farmers to cooperate on mitigation techniques and explore alternative incomes."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Prairie stream fish assemblages experience seasonal shifts in habitat conditions, often coupled with powerful disturbance regimes, where systems fluctuate widely between drought and deluge. These abiotic drivers, more often than biotic factors, structure fish assemblages. Scouring floods may reset stream communities to early successional seres, and droughts may progressively eliminate species from communities. Therefore, fish assemblage structure resilience depends on recolonisation and reproductive success following a disturbance. Many plains fishes have life history traits that facilitate the wide dispersal and immediate contribution of offspring following disturbance events. However, descriptions of temporal and spatial patterns in larval assemblage structure in prairie streams are scarce, and few studies evaluate the effect of disturbances on reproduction. The objectives of this research were to (i) study the timing and contribution of native prairie stream fishes to drifting larval fish assemblages in three eastern South Dakota basins (Vermillion, James and Big Sioux) and (ii) describe larval fish responses to floods in the James River. We sampled drifting larval fish diversity during the spawning season from 2010 to 2012 throughout each basin. We also examined the effect of flooding on larval fish assemblage structure using data collected near the confluence of the James and Missouri rivers during baseflow (2003, 2004 and 2012) and flood conditions (2010). Subtle variability in spawning traits of prairie fishes and an apparent seasonal progression of larval fish taxa that secondarily respond to disturbance regimes suggests reproductive efforts are adapted to maximise the potential for successful recruitment in these severe systems."	USA	Ecology
"Mauritius is reported to have the highest marine species endemism in the Western Indian Ocean faunal Province but the status of these species has not been evaluated. To address this knowledge gap, 119 reef sites were sampled to evaluate populations of 16 species of rare and endemic reef fish and corals using scuba-based surveys conducted by citizen scientists and marine science professionals. Additionally, we interviewed similar to 1,000 households in 27 coastal villages to determine their perceptions of the environmental concerns and rare and endemic marine species. In general, population numbers of both studied corals and fish were low and distributions were patchy, with little indication that the fisheries management zones were protecting these species. The Mauritian gregory and Mauritian anemonefish were the most abundant species. The Mauritian and Creole damselfishes, which are range-restricted Mascarene endemics, were not observed and potentially extinct. Endemic fish and coral population numbers were higher on the leeward than windward side of the island. The leeward side has higher tourism use and conservation activities that could promote endemic conservation. Environmental concerns of interviewees were high but varied by district and their socioeconomic contexts. Respondents showed an overall concern for the environment and agreed that endemic and rare species had a right to survive. Nevertheless, these rare and endemic coral reef species are threatened by isolation and habitat loss combined with rapid climate and human resource use change. National and district-specific plans of actions could help to secure their futures."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Our investigation of saprobic marine fungi in India, Thailand, Sweden and the UK yielded 57 species accommodated in 26 families. In the present study, we describe two new genera, 37 new species and 15 new host records. Novel genera, Halocryptosphaeria and Halotestudina are introduced within Diatrypaceae (Xylariales) and Testudinaceae (Pleosporales), respectively. The new species, Amarenographium ammophilicola, Asterodiscus mangrovei, Boeremia maritima, Chaetopsina aurantisalinicola, Chloridium salinicola, Coniochaeta arenariae, C. krabiensis, Diaporthe krabiensis, D. marina, D. salinicola, Dictyosporium marinum, Dyfrolomyces neothailandicus, Fusicolla gigantispora, Halorosellinia krabiensis, H. xylocarpi, Halotestudina muriformis, Hypoxylon aurantium, H. mangrovei, Lasiodiplodia krabiensis, Nectria marina, Nemania phetchaburiensis, N. viridis, Neocamarosporium artemisiae, N. maritimae, Neocosmospora rhizophorae, Nigrograna samueliana, N. rhizophorae, Patellaria apiculatae, Periconia salina, Peroneutypa indica, P. polysporae, Phaeoseptum carolshearerianum, P. manglicola, Rhytidhysteron bruguierae, Rimaconus multiguttulatus, Salsuginea rhizophorae and Xenoacremonium brunneosporum are introduced based on multigene analyses and morphological studies. This study also provides insights into the diversity of fungi from marine based habitats and confirm that they occupy diverse marine niches. We also demonstrate how marine based substrates, including sand dunes, are fascinating substrates for discovering novel taxa. All taxa described herein are based on morphological examination of fresh specimens supported by multigene phylogenies to better integrate taxa into higher taxonomic framework and infer their phylogenetic relationships as well as establish new species."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Geomorphological changes in recent decades in the estuarine system of San Vicente de la Barquera (Cantabria, Spain) are analyzed. For this analysis, two high-resolution geomorphological maps are generated from visual interpretation of digital orthophotos (1956 and 2017). The Habitat Digitizer Tool for ArcGIS was used as an interface to rapidly identify and assign attributes to the polygons created. Settings are conditioned at a spatial scale of 1:2500 with a minimum mapping unit (MMU) of 50 m(2). The main results show remarkable changes in the studied saltmarshes, with a drastic 85% reduction in the occupied surface (from 25.65% of the estuary in 1956, to 3.62% in 2017). The results here presented suggest that the geomorphological changes and recent evolution observed in the saltmarshes of San Vicente de la Barquera may be related to: (1) a decrease on river sedimentary discharge and a higher coastal sediment transport inside the estuary, (2) human interventions like dredging of the main channel or shore urbanization and, finally, (3) changes on mean sea level rise in the last century, which significantly affect low-lying areas which have not potential area to migrate. These factors have altered the estuarine dynamics, reducing the area occupied by some geomorphological units and, therefore, causing habitat changes and disappearance. This work illustrates the importance of fine-resolution mapping to estimate trends and the development of proper management measures in order to restore estuarine habitats and their associated ecosystem services."	NonUS	Conservation
"The giant barrel sponge Xestospongia muta is a dominant member of Caribbean reef ecosystems. Populations of X. muta that have been monitored annually in plots on Conch and Pickles Reefs in the Florida Keys increased by as much as 122% between 2000 and 2012, raising questions about the processes structuring these growing populations. Microsatellite markers for the closely related Pacific giant barrel sponge X. testudinaria were optimized for X. muta using individuals from Conch and Pickles Reefs (located 5.5 km apart). Further, within one plot on Conch Reef (AQS3 - 20 m depth), each individual of X. muta was mapped and genotyped to investigate fine-scale spatial genetic structuring. Significant spatial autocorrelation was detected at 2-m distance, but the dispersal distance and neighborhood size could not be determined, suggesting that recruitment extends beyond the plot. Finally, sponge samples from Conch Reef (15- and 20-m depth) and Pickles Reefs (15-m depth) were pooled into a single population for Bayesian cluster analyses. Results showed two distinct genetic clusters in the population, Clusters 1 and 2, with a near absence of Cluster 2 sponges among the largest individuals. Comparisons of the microsatellite data with mortality and recruitment data obtained from the plots revealed that the shifting genetic structure is due to disproportionate reproduction or recruitment of Cluster 2 sponges. The selective forces responsible for this genetic shift remain unclear, but it is further evidence of the dramatic changes occurring on coral reefs in the Anthropocene."	USA	Genetics
"Studies on dietary habits and niche overlap of sympatric carnivore species can be vital for their conservation. They can reveal the potential level of inter-specific competition and prey species overlap, thus highlighting species specific conservation requirements. We investigated diet composition of two such sympatric carnivore species Asiatic jackal Canis aureus and the Kashmir hill fox Vulpes vulpes grifithii in and around Pir Lasura National Park, in northeastern Himalayan region of Pakistan by using fecal analysis after confirming the carnivore species by genetic analyses. The scats of the two carnivores were collected during four different seasons of the year and analyzed in the laboratory. Results revealed sixteen prey species in the diet of Asiatic jackal and 21 species in the diet of the Kashmir hill fox. For Asiatic jackal, wild prey contributed approximately 18%, whereas 60% of the diet comprised of domestic prey. For Kashmir hill fox, the wild prey consumption was approximately 18%, while consumption of domestic prey was 51% and plants contributed 28%. Niche breadth of the Asiatic jackal was broader (0.78) compared to Kashmir hill fox (0.31). Niche overlap between these two sympatric carnivores was found to be a rather high 0.81."	NonUS	Ecology
"Protected areas have become a vital conservation strategy to protect wildlife; however, illegal activities performed by local people within and around protected areas may undermine their conservation goals. We used information from 169 direct interviews with rural residents in order to understand the factors affecting illegal behaviors related to hunting and deforestation in three protected areas and a buffer zone of the Southern Bahian Atlantic Forest. We explored correlations between background factors, attitudes, norms, perceived behavioral control and behaviors toward different motivations for hunting (hunting for consumption, killing animals in retaliation for damage to crops or livestock, and keeping wildlife in captivity as pets), and deforestation based on insights from the Theory of Planned Behavior. Our results suggest that a combination of demographic factors, values held for protected areas and location influenced respondents' attitudes, descriptive norms, and perceived behavioral control in the study region. We also found that components of the Theory of Planned Behavior such as attitudes and descriptive norms may be good predictors of the studied behaviors. Increasing local support for and compliance with policies of the protected areas is necessary for the long-term efficacy of these areas and for protection of species. Our findings suggest that to change behaviors of residents toward conservation in the study area, management actions should consider people's attitudes and norms and the combination of background factors that influence these variables."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Global trade in non-native ornamental species coupled with high connectivity among countries is well known to result in worldwide biological invasions, which pose challenges for the conservation and management of biodiversity. There are few studies aimed at implementing management strategies that have examined differences in the potential invasiveness of non-native species between neighbouring political regions within the same ecoregion. To compare the potential risk of invasiveness of non-native ornamental fishes with high commercial value in the river basins of two neighbouring regions of East and Southeast Asia, 32 extant and horizon species were screened with the aquatic species invasiveness screening kit (as-isk) for the lower Pearl River basin (South China) and the Chao Phraya River basin (Thailand). Both regional (i.e. basin level) and combined risk-ranking thresholds were determined by receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. Of the 32 species screened, 14 were categorized as posing a high risk and seven were categorized as posing a medium risk of being invasive in both regions, under current and future climate conditions. These species have a history of invasiveness and the climate of their native ranges is similar to that of the two study regions. Pterygoplichthys pardalis received the highest risk score in both regions. The risk ranks of 11 species differed between the two regions, based on either the combined or regional thresholds, and this was partly related to the different risk of invasiveness between the two regions, coupled with cognitive subjectivity among the assessors. The results of the present study suggest that the invasion of non-native ornamental fish species could pose similar threats to biodiversity in neighbouring regions. This will serve to inform policy makers of neighbouring countries in the development of coordinated, mutually beneficial regulations and management strategies to enhance the conservation of native species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Background: Hawai 'i's native forest avifauna is experiencing drastic declines due to climate change-induced increases in temperature encroaching on their upper-elevation montane rainforest refugia. Higher temperatures support greater avian malaria infection rates due to greater densities of its primary vector, the southern house mosquito Culex quinquefasciatus, and enhance development of the avian malaria parasite Plasmodium relictum. Here we propose the use of the incompatible insect technique (IIT) or the combined IIT/sterile insect technique (SIT) for the landscape-scale (i.e., area-wide) control of Cx. quinquefasciatus, and have developed a calculator to estimate the costs of IIT and IIT/SIT applications at various sites in Hawai 'i. Methods: The overall cost of the infrastructure, personnel, and space necessary to produce incompatible adult males for release is calculated in a unit of similar to 1 million culicid larvae/week. We assessed the rearing costs and need for effective control at various elevations in Hawai 'i using a 10:1 overflooding ratio at each elevation. The calculator uses a rate describing the number of culicids needed to control wild-type mosquitoes at each site/elevation, in relation to the number of larval rearing units. This rate is a constant from which other costs are quantified. With minor modifications, the calculator described here can be applied to other areas, mosquito species, and similar techniques. To test the robustness of our calculator, the Kaua 'i-specific culicid IIT/SIT infrastructure costs were also compared to costs from Singapore, Mexico, and China using the yearly cost of control per hectare, and purchasing power parity between sites for the cost of 1000 IIT/SIT males. Results: As a proof of concept, we have used the calculator to estimate rearing infrastructure costs for an application of IIT in the Alaka 'i Wilderness Reserve on the island of Kaua 'i. Our analysis estimated an initial investment of at least similar to $1.16M with subsequent yearly costs of approximately $376K. Projections of rearing costs for control at lower elevations are similar to 100 times greater than in upper elevation forest bird refugia. These results are relatively comparable to those real-world cost estimates developed for IIT/SIT culicid male production in other countries when inflation and purchasing power parity are considered. We also present supplemental examples of infrastructure costs needed to control Cx. quinquefasciatus in the home range of 'i 'iwi Drepanis coccinea, and the yellow fever vector Aedes aegypti. Conclusions: Our cost calculator can be used to effectively estimate the mass rearing cost of an IIT/SIT program. Therefore, the linear relationship of rearing infrastructure to costs used in this calculator is useful for developing a conservative cost estimate for IIT/SIT culicid mass rearing infrastructure. These mass rearing cost estimates vary based on the density of the targeted organism at the application site."	USA	Technology
"The Roseobacter clade represents one of the most abundant groups of marine bacteria and plays important biogeochemical roles in marine environments. Roseobacter genomes commonly contain a conserved gene transfer agent (GTA) gene cluster. A major capsid protein-encoding GTA (g5) has been used as a genetic marker to estimate the diversity of marine roseobacters. Here, the diversity of roseobacters in the coastal seawater of Arctic Kongsfjorden and Antarctic Maxwell Bay was investigated based on g5 gene clone library analysis. Four g5 gene clone libraries were constructed from microbial assemblages representing Arctic and Antarctic regions. The genus Phaeobacter was exclusively detected in Arctic seawater, whereas the genera Jannaschia, Litoreibacter and Pacificibacter were only observed in Antarctic seawater. More diverse genera within the Roseobacter clade were observed in Antarctic clones than in Arctic clones. The genera Sulfitobacter, Loktanella and Yoonia were dominant (higher than 10% of total clones) in both Arctic and Antarctic samples, implying their roles in polar marine environments. The results not only indicated a bipolar or even global distribution of roseobacters in marine environments but also showed their endemic distribution either in the Arctic or Antarctic. Endemic phylotypes were more frequently observed in polar regions than cosmopolitan phylotypes. In addition, endemic phylotypes were more abundant in Arctic samples (84.8% of Arctic sequences) than in Antarctic samples (54.3% of Antarctic sequences)."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"As a fundamental component for marine ecosystem functioning, phytoplankton require an appraisal of the extent of their adaptive potential to interpret the effects of natural or human-induced changes in marine habitats. To this aim, the study of the present ecological characteristics of phytoplankton species represents the first effort to assess their adaptive potential in a wide spectrum of environmental variables. Using a set of nine time series, this study aimed at describing the ecological niche of 10 worldwide-distributed species and testing whether individual species occupy the same niche across different environments. The species showed wide variations in frequency, average abundance and seasonal pattern among sites, while their annual maxima occurred over ample ranges of physical-chemical variables, with marked differences from site to site depicting a considerably wide global niche for each species. Although in some of the species this result can be attributed to the existence of multiple, morphologically similar taxa hardly identifiable in light microscopy, other cases could be explained by intraspecific diversity and/or enhanced adaptation potential in phytoplankton populations. Although probably not applicable to species with more restricted distribution ranges, these results should be considered when projecting present species distributions into a future scenario of climate change."	NonUS	Ecology
"Wolves play a crucial role in shaping ecological communities as an apex predator in the thy-open forests of semi-arid landscapes in India. Large scale habitat loss pertaining to human expansion and retaliatory killing by human caused severe decline in the wolf population across its range. The estimated wolf population size is close to 2000-3000 individuals in India; however, these estimates were decades old and the present status of the wolf in the semi-arid landscape is largely unknown. We assessed the distribution of wolves in Kailadevi Wildlife Sanctuary, Rajasthan using occupancy models and identified important factors associated with habitat-use by wolves. Occupancy modelling shifts the focus from individual animal to a site, while accounting for detection probability. To assess the habitat-use we used sign-based surveys that rely on data collected from adjacent sampling sites (replicates). The habitat-use was assessed across 672.82 km(2) surveying 48 grid cells, each measuring 14.44 km(2). Estimated habitat-use Psi (SD) was found to be 0.82 (0.14). Our findings suggested that availability of agriculture land had the significant positive influence on the habitat-use of wolves. Other factors such as availability of water, scrubland, and wild prey (nilgai and chinkara) also had a positive effect on the habitat use of wolves, but it was not significant. Forest cover has a negative influence on the habitat use of wolves. This study is the first rigorous assessment of the Indian grey wolf habitat-use at the level of wildlife reserve with potential conservation value that can be applied to other areas in India."	NonUS	Ecology
"Over the last two decades, major changes in abundance and population characteristics of Alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus), an anadromous herring species, have been observed along the US Atlantic coast. Loss of spawning habitat, bycatch mortality in the directed pelagic fisheries, increased predation mortality by rebounding predators such as Striped Bass, changes in water flow and temperature affecting recruitment success, changes in ocean thermal habitat and direct and indirect effects of changes in zooplankton community have been expounded by different researchers as putative hypotheses for population changes in Alewife. Unfortunately, long-term, concurrently-measured time series of regional factors and direct measures of biological processes needed to elucidate underlying causes are severely lacking for Alewife. Therefore, we developed, calibrated and validated a mechanistic, spatially-explicit, full life-cycle simulation model that can be used to explore population responses of Alewife to various exogeneous drivers. Daily processes such as spawning, recruitment, mortality, exploitation, predation and movements are generated by using empirically-derived deterministic and stochastic relationships and time-series of environmental data linked to specific life stages. We demonstrate the use of the model as an investigative tool by simulating three hypotheses and comparing model results to observed trends in Alewife populations from southern New England."	USA	Fisheries
"Wildlife responses to infectious disease can be influenced by environmental stressors that alter host-pathogen dynamics. We investigated how livestock grazing, climatic variation, and breeding phenology influence disease prevalence and annual survival in boreal toad (Ancayrus boreas boreas) populations challenged with Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), a fungal pathogen implicated in global amphibian declines. We conducted a five-year (2015-2019) capture-recapture study of boreal toads (n = 1301) inhabiting pastures grazed by cattle in western Wyoming, USA. We employed structural equation models to determine whether the effects of climatic variation on Bd prevalence were direct or mediated through effects on breeding phenology and multi-state models to explore the interplay of grazing, weather, and Bd infection on adult survival. Higher winter snow-pack was linked with shorter spring breeding seasons, which were associated with lower Bd prevalence. Boreal toads infected with Bd suffered increased mortality, but only at relatively cool temperatures. Although cattle grazing created warmer microclimates, likely by reducing vegetation cover, grazing-induced habitat changes did not scale up to influence adult survival. Our results suggest that boreal toads in cooler environments face increased risk of disease-induced mortality, possibly because infected individuals are not able to elevate body temperature to reduce or clear infection. More generally, we demonstrate that host-pathogen dynamics can be shaped jointly by independent and interactive effects of livestock grazing, breeding season length, and climatic variation. Future investigations of wildlife responses to disease therefore may benefit from considering anthropogenic land use and climatic regimes, including the effect of weather on host phenology."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Aim: Accurate predictions of cetacean distributions are essential to their conservation but are limited by statistical challenges and a paucity of data. This study aimed at comparing the capacity of various statistical algorithms to deal with biases commonly found in nonsystematic cetacean surveys and to evaluate the potential for citizen science data to improve habitat modelling and predictions. An endangered population of humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) in their breeding ground was used as a case study. Location: New Caledonia, Oceania. Methods: Five statistical algorithms were used to model the habitat preferences of humpback whales from 1,360 sightings collected over 14 years of nonsystematic research surveys. Three different background sampling approaches were tested when developing models from 625 crowdsourced sightings to assess methods accounting for citizen science spatial sampling bias. Model evaluation was conducted through cross-validation and prediction to an independent satellite tracking dataset. Results: Algorithms differed in complexity of the environmental relationships modelled, ecological interpretability and transferability. While parameter tuning had a great effect on model performances, GLMs generally had low predictive performance, SVMs were particularly hard to interpret, and BRTs had high descriptive power but showed signs of overfitting. MAXENT and especially GAMs provided a valuable complexity trade-off, accurate predictions and were ecologically intelligible. Models showed that humpback whales favoured cool (22-23 degrees C) and shallow waters (0-100 m deep) in coastal as well as offshore areas. Citizen science models converged with research survey models, specifically when accounting for spatial sampling bias. Main conclusions: Marine megafauna distribution models present specific challenges that may be addressed through integrative evaluation, independent testing and appropriately tuned statistical algorithms. Specifically, controlling overfitting is a priority when predicting cetacean distributions for large-scale conservation perspectives. Citizen science data appear to be a powerful tool to describe cetacean habitat."	NonUS	Conservation
"Ulva prolifera green tide in the Yellow Sea of China is a typical cross-regional marine ecological disaster. We hypothesized that the complex interactions between U. prolifera and its associated bacterial communities possibly impact the formation and outbreak of green tide. To test this hypothesis, the U. prolifera-associated bacterial community changes in the entire migration area were investigated through field sampling and high-throughput sequencing. The results showed that (1) with the green tide migration, the richness and diversity increased for U. prolifera epiphytic bacterial communities, while they decreased for seawater bacterial communities in the phycosphere. (2) The richness, diversity, and community composition of U. prolifera-associated bacteria changed more dramatically in the 35.00 degrees N sea area. (3) Potential interactions between bacteria and U. prolifera existed during the entire long-distance migration of green tide, and six bacterial functional groups (BFGs) were defined. Growth-regulating BFG I and antibacterial and stress-resistance BFG II were the dominant communities in the early stage of the green tide migration, which have the role of regulating algal growth and synergistic protection. Heterotrophic BFG III and algicidal BFG IV were the dominant communities in the late stage of the green tide migration, and they were able to compete with algae for nutrients and inhibit algal growth. Nutritive BFG V and algae-derived nutritional type BFG VI symbiotically lived with algal host. Our study highlights the spatial and temporal complexity of U. prolifera-associated bacterial communities and provides valuable insights into the potential contribution of U. prolifera-associated bacterial communities to green tide outbreaks."	NonUS	Ecology
"Crangonyx ephemerus n. sp. and Crangonyx pseudoephemerus n. sp. are described from the headwaters of the St. Marks River in Leon County, Florida, based on detailed morphological and molecular comparisons with the closely related species Crangonyx floridanus Bousfield, 1963. The morphological and molecular data, including three species delimitation models, lend support to the hypothesis that the taxon C. floridanus sensu lato represents a species complex. Diagnostic morphological characteristics are highlighted and discussed within this group to assist in future morphological analyses."	USA	Genetics
"Overwintering is a key demographic stage for migratory birds but remains poorly understood, especially among multiple declining grassland bird species. The non-breeding ranges all 4 species of longspur (i.e., chestnut-collared [Calcarius ornatus], Smith's [C. pictus], Lapland [C. lapponicus], thick-billed [Rhynchophanes mccownii]) overlap in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, USA, making this region ideal to study their wintering ecology. We evaluated the relationship between wintering longspur occurrence and fine-scale habitat characteristics using a combination of standardized bird surveys and vegetation plot sampling. Our study encompassed large, representative tracts of 3 prairie ecosystems (i.e., shortgrass, mixed-grass, and tallgrass prairies) that intersect within the Southern Great Plains, during winters of 2018-2019 and 2019-2020. Using randomization tests and classification trees, we characterized longspur habitats and compared these associations across the 3 prairie ecosystems. Fine-scale winter habitats (horizontal structure, vertical structure, and species compositions) varied among all 4 longspur species, varied at very fine scales, and differed between grassland types. Our findings can be applied to the management of grasslands such as decreasing vegetation height in mixed-grass prairies for chestnut-collared longspurs or removing woody vegetation in shortgrass prairies for thick-billed longspurs to help develop full-life cycle conservation for longspurs, which have experienced population declines."	USA	Ecology
"As many as 500,000 waterfowl reside in California, USA, during summer, but little is known about the availability or quality of their habitats. Wetland size and distribution serve as proximate cues for habitat selection by breeding waterfowl in other parts of North America such as the Prairie Pothole Region. In heavily modified landscapes such as California's Central Valley, disturbance from factors like crop cultivation and urban development may limit access, affect survival, and decrease reproductive success. Water limitations due to recurring seasonal droughts pose another potential threat to breeding waterfowl. Spatial and temporal disparities in environmental resources may provide clearer indications of ultimate habitat selection. We addressed waterfowl habitat selection in 9 regions surveyed annually by California's Department of Fish and Wildlife to determine relative importance of drought severity, wetland area, and habitat quality on mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and other waterfowl population dynamics from 2007-2019. High-quality habitat supports long-term population persistence of waterfowl. This study period included an extended drought (2012-2015) and flooding (2016-2017). Statewide, habitat quality was the best predictor of mallard and other waterfowl population fluctuations. The model that included intermediate habitat quality, which accounted for influence of adjacent land-use, outperformed models that included wetland area alone. At the regional level, drought severity out-ranked other variables in most regions, suggesting management at regional scales must account for climate. Drought accounted for bird declines in some regions and possible increases in others. This information could be used to identify areas for conservation priority based on projected drought frequency and severity."	USA	Conservation
"Understanding spatial linkages between areas used by migratory animals during the annual cycle is fundamental to their conservation. Stable isotope measurements of animal tissues can be a valuable tool in understanding spatial connectivity and migration phenology of migratory wildlife. We inferred natal origins of two migratory passerines, European Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca and European Robin Erithacus rubecula, captured during autumn migration in the Italian Alps, by combining feather delta H-2 (delta H-2(f)) and ring recovery data. We used a spatially explicit likelihood-based method to assign individuals to a precipitation delta H-2 surface calibrated to represent feather delta H-2, together with the directional probability of origin from ring recoveries. The highest probabilities of origin for most individuals of both species were in central and north-eastern Europe. Seasonal trends in delta H-2(f), which described the species' migratory phenology through the Italian Alps, were correlated with feather delta C-13, delta N-15 and delta S-34 values, indicating strong spatial discrimination related to continental patterns for these isotopes. We demonstrate how this combined information can define catchment areas and migratory connectivity of birds intercepted in the Alps. We highlight the importance of ringing data in defining directional priors to define Bayesian-based probability surfaces using continental delta H-2(f) isoscapes, and how such information can be used to inform estimates of migratory connectivity."	NonUS	Ecology
"Bacteria are known to have explicit roles within the microbiomes of host tissues, therefore examining these communities may prove useful in assessing host health and responses to environmental change. The present study contributes to the emerging, yet understudied, field of microbiome research in elasmobranchs. We provide a screening of the culturable bacteria communities found on multiple tissue sites on the body surface of blacktip (Carcharhinus limbatus), bull (Carcharhinus leucas), and tiger (Galeocerdo cuvier) sharks near Miami, Florida. Tissue sites include mouth, gills, skin, and any visible wounds. The study adds to our understanding of the diversity of bacteria present on sharks in comparison to their natural environment. We also compare bacterial groups found within wounds in shark skin to healthy tissue sites on the same individual. Results indicate that wounds on an individual may allow for opportunistic bacteria to invade or overgrow where they would not normally be found, which may have potential health consequences for sharks that become wounded due to fishing practices. Identified bacteria belonged to the Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria phyla, known to be prominent bacterial groups associated with marine organisms. Results indicate shark species-specific differences in bacterial communities, including the presence of bacteria belonging to Planococcaceae exclusively on the skin of tiger sharks. To our knowledge, this is the first report of this family in any elasmobranch. While most tissue sites displayed commensal bacteria identified in similar studies, known pathogens belonging to Vibrionaceae and Staphylococcaceae were identified in the wounds of blacktip and bull sharks. Some bacteria may be normal residents, but the loss of protective dermal denticles due to a wound may allow colonization by pathogens. Continued research is needed to explore microbial communities associated with sharks and their influence on host health."	USA	Ecology
"1. Microbial communities are increasingly recognized as crucial for animal health. However, our understanding of how microbial communities are structured across wildlife populations is poor. Mechanisms such as interspecific associations are important in structuring free-living communities, but we still lack an understanding of how important interspecific associations are in structuring gut microbial communities in comparison with other factors such as host characteristics or spatial proximity of hosts. 2. Here, we ask how gut microbial communities are structured in a population of North American moose Alces alces. We identify key microbial interspecific associations within the moose gut and quantify how important they are relative to key host characteristics, such as body condition, for predicting microbial community composition. 3. We sampled gut microbial communities from 55 moose in a population experiencing decline due to a myriad of factors, including pathogens and malnutrition. We examined microbial community dynamics in this population utilizing novel graphical network models that can explicitly incorporate spatial information. 4. We found that interspecific associations were the most important mechanism structuring gut microbial communities in moose and detected both positive and negative associations. Models only accounting for associations between microbes had higher predictive value compared to models including moose sex, evidence of previous pathogen exposure or body condition. Adding spatial information on moose location further strengthened our model and allowed us to predict microbe occurrences with similar to 90% accuracy. 5. Collectively, our results suggest that microbial interspecific associations coupled with host spatial proximity are vital in shaping gut microbial communities in a large herbivore. In this case, previous pathogen exposure and moose body condition were not as important in predicting gut microbial community composition. The approach applied here can be used to quantify interspecific associations and gain a more nuanced understanding of the spatial and host factors shaping microbial communities in non-model hosts."	USA	Ecology
"Among FAO's Major Fishing Areas, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea had the highest percentage (62.5%) of stocks fished at unsustainable levels, especially demersal stocks. Spatial-temporal restrictions of fishing activities are important measures used for the management of marine stocks. However, sometimes these regulations are not fully implemented due to a lack of effectiveness and compliance, which contributes to their failure. Here, we developed a food-web model approach using the Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE) model representing the Fisheries Restricted Area (FRA) of the Gulf of Lion ecosystem (CoSEGoL model) prior to the establishment of the fisheries restrictions (2006-2008). We characterized the structure and functioning of the ecosystem before and after its establishment. The constructed food-web model was then fitted to the available time series of data from 2008 to 2016 to verify whether this FRA has contributed to the recovery of target demersal species and the demersal community. The fitted model was used to explore alternative future management scenarios to explore feasible management options in order to ensure a full ecosystem recovery under climate change conditions. Our results suggest a failure in the recovery of target species in the restricted area under the current management scenario, potentially revealing a lack of protection efficiency and/or enforcement. Scenarios of management options under plausible climate futures revealed possible recovery of targeted species, especially European hake. The study highlighted the importance of considering trophic interactions between predators and prey to identify trade-offs and synergies in fisheries management outcomes and the need to consider both fishing and climate dynamics."	NonUS	Fisheries
"A new method consisting of enrichment factor (EF) determination, nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS), and the geographic information system (GIS) technique was firstly developed to identify anthropogenic heavy metal sources in marine sediments of Hong Kong. Firstly, the EF was determined to differentiate between heavy metals originating from human and natural sources. Subsequently, NMS was applied to identify various source patterns of heavy metals, and the NMS score was calculated and spatially interpolated using GIS technology to evaluate the spatial influences of anthropogenic impacts in different areas. The concentrations of heavy metals in sediments of Hong Kong substantially exceeded their background values, demonstrating anthropogenic pollution. Two different types of human sources could be identified via NMS, one representing the industrial pollution discharges in the period from the 1960s to the 1980s before pollution control was introduced and one representing sewage discharge before the Tolo Harbour Action Plan in the mid-1980s."	NonUS	Technology
"Deltaproteobacteria, now proposed to be the phyla Desulfobacterota, Myxococcota, and SAR324, are ubiquitous in marine environments and play essential roles in global carbon, sulfur, and nutrient cycling. Despite their importance, our understanding of these bacteria is biased towards cultured organisms. Here we address this gap by compiling a genomic catalog of 1 792 genomes, including 402 newly reconstructed and characterized metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from coastal and deep-sea sediments. Phylogenomic analyses reveal that many of these novel MAGs are uncultured representatives of Myxococcota and Desulfobacterota that are understudied. To better characterize Deltaproteobacteria diversity, metabolism, and ecology, we clustered similar to 1 500 genomes based on the presence/absence patterns of their protein families. Protein content analysis coupled with large-scale metabolic reconstructions separates eight genomic clusters of Deltaproteobacteria with unique metabolic profiles. While these eight clusters largely correspond to phylogeny, there are exceptions where more distantly related organisms appear to have similar ecological roles and closely related organisms have distinct protein content. Our analyses have identified previously unrecognized roles in the cycling of methylamines and denitrification among uncultured Deltaproteobacteria. This new view of Deltaproteobacteria diversity expands our understanding of these dominant bacteria and highlights metabolic abilities across diverse taxa."	USA	Genetics
"Developmental activities have been one of the major drivers of conversion of natural forest areas into mosaics of forest fragments, agriculture, and plantations, threatening the existence of wildlife species in such altered landscapes. Most conservation research and actions are protected area centric and seldom addresses the importance of landscape matrices around these protected areas in providing habitats to a wide range of species. In this article, we bring out the crucial role of natural and anthropogenic habitats for the existence of three charismatic species, namely, Asian elephants, leopard, and lion-tailed macaques. The larger public perception of where the animals should be and where the animals actually are is also discussed. We emphasize that, while habitat generalists often adapt behaviorally and ecologically to modified landscapes, habitat specialists, such as the lion-tailed macaques could find survival harder, with increasing anthropogenic pressures and loss of their habitats."	NonUS	Conservation
"We developed a dimethylsulfide (DMS) module coupled to an ecological dynamics model studying the annual DMS cycle of the Yellow and East China seas (YECS). The model results showed that surface DMS concentrations ([DMS]) peaked in August along the coast, and there exhibited several DMS peaks offshore annually. In addition, surface [DMS] were higher in the Yellow Sea than that in the East China Sea. The annual mean surface [DMS] of the YECS reached to 4.55 nmol/L, and oceanic DMS emissions from this sea area was 6.78 mu mol/(m2 day). Several sensitivity experiments demonstrated that phytoplankton community and sea water temperature exerted crucial effects on seasonal variations of surface [DMS]; and phytoplankton community or temperature changed the timing of surface DMS peak while photolysis affected the magnitude of [DMS]. Moreover, the effect size of phytoplankton community or water temperature varied spatially."	NonUS	Ecology
"Revealing planktonic fungal ecology under coastal eutrophication is crucial to our understanding of microbial community shift in marine pollution background. We investigated the diversity, putative interspecies interactions, assembly processes and environmental responses of abundant and rare planktonic fungal communities along a eutrophication gradient present in the Beibu Gulf. The results showed that Dothideomycetes and Agaricomycetes were the predominant classes of abundant and rare fungi, respectively. We found that eutrophication significantly altered the planktonic fungal communities and affected the abundant taxa more than the rare taxa. The abundant and rare taxa were keystone members in the co-occurrence networks, and their interaction was enhanced with increasing nutrient concentrations. Stochastic processes dominated the community assembly of both abundant and rare planktonic fungi across the eutrophication gradient. Heterogeneous selection affected abundant taxa more than rare taxa, whereas homogenizing dispersal had a greater influence on rare taxa. Influences of environmental factors involving selection processes were detected, we found that abundant fungi were mainly influenced by carbon compounds, whereas rare taxa were simultaneously affected by carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus compounds in the Beibu Gulf. Overall, these findings highlight the distinct ecological adaptations of abundant and rare fungal communities to marine eutrophication."	NonUS	Ecology
"A mixed infection of a single tick or host by Lyme disease spirochetes is common and a unique challenge for the diagnosis, treatment, and surveillance of Lyme disease. Here, we describe a novel protocol for differentiating Lyme strains on the basis of deep sequencing of the hypervariable outer surface protein C locus (ospC). Improving upon the traditional DNA-DNA hybridization method, the next-generation sequencing-based protocol is high throughput, quantitative, and able to detect new pathogen strains. We applied the method to more than one hundred infected Ixodes scapularis ticks collected from New York State, USA, in 2015 and 2016. An analysis of strain distributions within individual ticks suggests an overabundance of multiple infections by five or more strains, inhibitory interactions among coinfecting strains, and the presence of a new strain closely related to Borreliella bissettiae. A supporting bioinformatics pipeline has been developed. The newly designed pair of universal ospC primers target intergenic sequences conserved among all known Lyme pathogens. The protocol could be used for culture-free identification and quantification of Lyme pathogens in wildlife and potentially in clinical specimens."	USA	Technology
"There is a paucity of information on juvenile tarpon Megalops atlanticus habitat use at the northern edge of its distribution. Therefore, we investigated the timing of recruitment and the size distribution of juvenile tarpon in natural and managed marshes in coastal South Carolina. We monitored recruitment to salt marsh habitats during July through November 2019 in the North Inlet estuary, Kiawah Island, and Tom Yawkey Wildlife Center Heritage Preserve. One-hundred and two juvenile tarpon (36-333 mm standard length) were observed during July to November. Tarpon from natural marsh pools (North Inlet estuary; mean +/- SD = 65.4 +/- 20.2 mm) were smaller than those from managed impoundments (Kiawah Island and Yawkey Preserve; 253.9 +/- 41.6 mm), with no overlap in size across habitats throughout the study duration. Mean tarpon length was relatively constant throughout the study in marsh pools (65 +/- 20.2 mm SL), but mean tarpon length increased from 180 +/- 9.9 mm SL in August to 290 +/- 31.5 mm SL in October in managed impoundments. Peak catch-per-unit-effort occurred during August (marsh pools) into September (managed impoundments) across habitat types and declined as water temperatures decreased at the end of October to November. The absence of size overlap between habitats and increasing size of tarpon over time in marsh impoundments compared to the minimal change in length over time observed for marsh pools suggests that (1) tarpon are transient in marsh pools early in life, (2) tarpon do not enter impoundments until reaching a certain size, (3) small juvenile tarpon are cryptic in impoundments and larger juvenile tarpon are more susceptible to capture in those habitats, or (4) a combination of (1), (2), and (3)."	USA	Ecology
"Background New wildlife telemetry and tracking technologies have become available in the last decade, leading to a large increase in the volume and resolution of animal tracking data. These technical developments have been accompanied by various statistical tools aimed at analysing the data obtained by these methods. Methods We used simulated habitat and tracking data to compare some of the different statistical methods frequently used to infer local resource selection and large-scale attraction/avoidance from tracking data. Notably, we compared spatial logistic regression models (SLRMs), spatio-temporal point process models (ST-PPMs), step selection models (SSMs), and integrated step selection models (iSSMs) and their interplay with habitat and animal movement properties in terms of statistical hypothesis testing. Results We demonstrated that only iSSMs and ST-PPMs showed nominal type I error rates in all studied cases, whereas SSMs may slightly and SLRMs may frequently and strongly exceed these levels. iSSMs appeared to have on average a more robust and higher statistical power than ST-PPMs. Conclusions Based on our results, we recommend the use of iSSMs to infer habitat selection or large-scale attraction/avoidance from animal tracking data. Further advantages over other approaches include short computation times, predictive capacity, and the possibility of deriving mechanistic movement models."	NonUS	Technology
"The world's most endangered small cetaceans are found in countries many miles from Sarasota Bay and its common bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). Information on the ecology and threats to many of these endangered cetaceans is often far more limited than that on bottlenose dolphins, with the IUCN Red Data List describing many species as data deficient. In many developing nations where these rare species occur, resources for research and monitoring are scant, and logistical challenges further limit research into marine mammal health and population status and their threats. The Sarasota Dolphin Research Program (SDRP) has tackled this problem by using the bottlenose dolphin as a model for cetacean species in other parts of the world and using its resources to assist scientists working with more endangered species of cetacean. The celebration of 50 years of study by the SDRP exemplifies how using long-term data on known individuals can advance the fields of cetacean behavior, ecology, life history, physiology, toxicology, and medicine, all providing information for informing certain conservation actions. The Sarasota team has used their work to inform conservation policy both home and abroad."	USA	Conservation
"DNA barcoding has become a popular method of choice for identification of specimen based on molecular techniques. Here, we present preliminary findings on generating robust DNA barcode library of Cervids of India. The dataset comprising the DNA barcode library of seven deer species included in the genus Cervus, Axis and Muntiacus classified under family Cervidae. Mitochondrial Cytochrome C Oxidase subunit I gene of ca. 710 bp accepted widely as DNA barcode region, was used for generating species specific signature from 31 known samples of seven Indian deer species. Expectedly, the NJ tree clustered three genera i.e. Cervus, Axis and Muntiacus of Cervids of India into three clades. Further, the intra- and interspecies distances based on Kimura 2 parameter model also supported the results. The average intra- and interspecies sequence divergence were 0.011 (+/- 0.09) and 0.65 (+/- 0.14), respectively. The present study has exhibited that DNA barcoding has discriminating power to delineate boundaries among the closely related species. The data generated are of high importance to the law enforcement agencies in effective identification of species in wildlife offence cases. The similar approach can be utilized for generating DNA barcodes for other Indian mammals for making effective management and conservation action decisions."	NonUS	Genetics
"Abundance estimation of hunted brown bear populations should occur on the same geographic scale as harvest data analyses for estimation of harvest rate. Estimated harvest rates are an important statistic for managing hunted bear populations. In Alaska, harvest data is collected over large geographic units, called Game Management Units (GMUs) and sub-GMUs. These sub GMUs often exceed 10,000 km(2). In the spring of 2002, we conducted an aerial survey of GMU 9D (12,600 km(2)) and GMU 10 (4,070 km(2)) using distance sampling with mark-resight data. We used a mark-resight distance sampling method with a two-piece normal detection function to estimate brown bear abundance as 1,682.9 (SE = 174.29) and 316.9 (SE = 48.25) for GMU 9D and GMU 10, respectively. We used reported hunter harvest to estimate harvest rates of 4.35% (SE = 0.45%) and 3.06% (SE = 0.47%) for GMU 9D and GMU 10, respectively. Management objective for these units support sustained, high quality hunting opportunity which harvest data indicate are met with an annual harvest rate of approximately 5-6% or less."	USA	Fisheries
"Growing evidence has demonstrated that microplastics (MPs) are available for a wide range of marine organisms, with filter-feeding bivalves and crabs being especially vulnerable. The crab Neohelice granulate is considered a key and structuring species in the Bahia Blanca Estuary (BBE) (SW Atlantic) and its ecological role makes this species especially vulnerable to several pollutants. In this study, male specimens of N. granulate and water samples were collected at three sites in the BBE for the presence of MPs. Different types of MPs were found in all the crabs and the water column samples, although the most frequent were fibers < 500-1500 mu m, mainly blue. This is the first study to identify MPs in the gills and digestive tract of N. granulate. Moreover, gills presented higher total abundances of MPs than the digestive tract, which suggests that in this case the main uptake of MPs would be by adherence to the gills."	NonUS	Ecology
"Imposex is a condition in which females of dioecious marine snails develop rudimentary male characteristics. It is caused by tributyltin (TBT) used as an antifoulant in vessel paints since the late 1960s. Following the 2008 international ban on TBT, a decreasing rate of imposex has been observed worldwide. In Western Australia, imposex surveys of the whelk Thais orbita up to 2011 in the Perth metropolitan area suggested a decreasing trend but a significant recovery has not been confirmed. Collection of T. orbita from 11 sites in 2019 demonstrated a virtually complete recovery from imposex. Although it is generally accepted that male snails are not affected by TBT, the historical data set allowed confirmation that the male penis is of similar size in T. orbita collected at heavily affected sites and at relatively unaffected sites. Similarly, imposexed female snails had similar shell lengths to female snails at non-impacted sites."	NonUS	Ecology
"Context Land-cover changes are likely affecting structural and functional connectivity for wetland-associated wildlife among the > 80,000 playa of the Great Plains (USA). Objectives We investigated how patterns of land cover from 2008 to 2016 affected structural and functional connectivity among playas under biologically feasible scenarios and a range of vagilities for amphibians. Methods We compared graph-theoretical, least-cost path (LCP), and landscape resistance models. Using land-cover and irrigation data and literature-based estimates of species-specific dispersal, we developed three alternative scenarios with resistance values that differed by land-cover type. Sensitivity analysis examined effects of altering the numeric range of values within models. Results From a structural perspective, the playa network was highly fragmented, with coalescence distances greater than amphibian dispersal capabilities (> 15 km). The network was insensitive to assigning different resistance values to different land-cover types: 81% of LCP locations overlapped with at least one other modeled scenario, and 57% of LCPs overlapped among all three scenarios. Conclusions Our findings partially support previous graph-based assessments of playa structural connectivity that indicated high levels of path redundancy within this ecological network. However, although there was extensive path overlap among scenarios, many modelled linkages were at distances well beyond the individual lifetime dispersal maxima for regional amphibians. Thus, functional connectivity would be achieved in this landscape only by spanning scales from daily movements to inter-generational dispersal."	USA	Ecology
"Steelhead Oncorhynchus mykiss is a species that is of high economic value that supports popular sport fisheries across the Pacific Northwest. The Clearwater River in Idaho provides a trophy steelhead fishery, and it is home to both wild- and hatchery-origin steelhead. To manage the fishery effectively, information is needed about the spatial and temporal overlap of wild and hatchery steelhead in the Clearwater River, as well as the activity of anglers. We conducted a radiotelemetry study to describe the distribution of steelhead and their final fate in the Clearwater River, and creel surveys were used to describe the distribution of anglers. In total, 289 wild (Potlatch River and Lochsa River) and hatchery (from Dworshak National Fish Hatchery and South Fork Clearwater River) steelhead were radio-tagged at Lower Granite Dam, 51 river kilometers (rkm) downstream from the mouth of the Clearwater River. Fish were monitored upon their entry into the Clearwater River by using mobile tracking surveys (boat and vehicle) and stationary antennas. The majority of wild and hatchery steelhead arrived in the Clearwater River in the fall with the exception of those from the Lochsa River, which arrived in the fall and following spring. Average daily movement of the fish was minimal (range = 0.3-4.7 km/d) and dependent on water temperature and flow. The fates of wild and hatchery steelhead varied. Fish returned to spawning grounds, were harvested by anglers (hatchery fish only), or had unknown fates. Both wild and hatchery steelhead returned at high rates to their natal tributaries and release locations. No straying was observed in either group; however, occasions when steelhead have overshot their natal tributaries and release locations were documented. Spatial and temporal overlap of the distributions of wild and hatchery steelhead was minimal. The distribution of anglers overlapped with that of hatchery steelhead in the fall, winter, and spring. The distributional overlap of anglers and wild steelhead was minimal and largely occurred in September in the lower Clearwater River. This suggests that the Clearwater River has a highly compartmentalized fishery and that current fishing regulations in the Clearwater River are providing for a diversity of angling opportunities while conserving wild steelhead and offering harvest of hatchery fish. The results from this study have important implications for the conservation and management of wild and hatchery steelhead."	USA	Fisheries
"Multiple environmental pressures caused by global warming and human activities have aroused widespread concern about PAHs pollution in tropical marine coral reef regions (CRRs). However, the trophodynamics of PAHs in the food webs of the CRRs and the related influence factors have not been reported. This study investigated the occurrence, trophic amplification, and transmission of PAHs in various organisms selecting between at least representative species for each level in CRRs of the South China Sea (SCS); revealed their driving mechanisms; and explored the trophodynamics of PAHs in the food web of the coral reef ecosystem. Results showed that more PAHs can be accumulated in the mantle tissue of Tridacnidae, and the proportion of mantle tissue of Tridacnidae increases with the increase of latitude (y = 0.01x + 0.17, R-2 = 0.49, p < 0.05). Latitude drives the differential occurrence level and bioaccumulation of PAHs in tropical marine organisms, and also affects the trophodynamics of PAHs in aquatic ecosystem food webs. PAHs undergo trophic amplification in the food webs of tropical marine ecosystems represented by coral reefs, thus further aggravating the negative environmental impact on coral reef ecosystems. The cancer risk caused by accidental ingestion of PAHs by humans through consumption of seafood in CRRs is very low, but we should be alert to the biomagnification effect of PAHs."	NonUS	Ecology
"The composition of local mammalian carnivore communities has far-reaching effects on terrestrial ecosystems worldwide. To better understand how carnivore communities are structured, we analysed camera trap data for 108087 trap days across 12 countries spanning five continents. We estimate local probabilities of co-occurrence among 768 species pairs from the order Carnivora and evaluate how shared ecological traits correlate with probabilities of co-occurrence. Within individual study areas, species pairs co-occurred more frequently than expected at random. Co-occurrence probabilities were greatest for species pairs that shared ecological traits including similar body size, temporal activity pattern and diet. However, co-occurrence decreased as compared to other species pairs when the pair included a large-bodied carnivore. Our results suggest that a combination of shared traits and top-down regulation by large carnivores shape local carnivore communities globally."	USA	Ecology
"This study tests if rainfall regime and estuary hydrodynamics affect ecological picocyanobacterial patterns. We statistically related rainfall with picocyanobacteria (flow cytometry) and water quality data from a seven-year-long survey of Guanabara Bay (GB). The quality of GB's water varies spatially, depending on pollution hotspots, tidal influence, and water circulation patterns. It also varies seasonally, depending on the rainfall regime. Our results showed that rainfall regularly makes water quality and microbiology of the inner estuarine regions more like the tributaries' environment. We found that phycocyanin-rich and phycoerythrin-rich picocyanobacterial abundances are associated with riverine and marine waters, respectively. Besides affecting GB's water quality, rainfall governs its picocyanobacterial distribution and ecology. Thus, climate changes may influence the balance of the picocyanobacterial groups in tropical estuaries. Furthermore, the omnipresence of picocyanobacterial groups found in GB, such as Synechococcus and Cyanobium, highlights their ecological role in tropical estuaries, as seen in the open ocean."	NonUS	Ecology
"Free water can influence the ecology of desert species. While the use of free water is influenced by physiological factors (e.g., species-specific water requirements, moisture in forage, temperature), nonphysiological factors, such as habitat characteristics and interspecific interactions, are also important. In fact, for species of concern, interspecific interactions and habitat can be important factors influencing their spatial and temporal use of the landscape and its resources. The kit fox (Vulpes macrotis) is a small carnivore considered to be a species of concern over much of its range, and two of the most important conservation challenges it faces are related to (1) habitat and (2) predation/competition by intraguild species. Our objective was to determine the influence of habitat characteristics, predators (bobcats [Lynx rufus], coyotes [Canis latrans]), and potential competitors (badgers [Taxidea taxus], gray foxes [Urocyon cinereoargenteus]) on the use of water by kit foxes. From June to September 2010-2012, we used remote cameras to monitor carnivores at 63 water sources in the Mojave Desert. We used zero-inflated mixed-effects models and a two-stage model selection analysis to evaluate the influence of habitat, predators, and competitors on spatial visits to water by kit foxes. We also assessed temporal avoidance of intraguild predators and competitors by kit foxes at water sources using a coefficient of overlap. We found that visual obscurity, overhead canopy cover, badgers, and coyotes influenced spatial visits of kit foxes. In addition, kit foxes exhibited strong temporal overlap with badgers and bobcats, moderate temporal overlap with gray foxes, and weak temporal overlap with coyotes. Taken together, our study demonstrates that the spatial and temporal use of water sources by kit foxes is dynamic, depending on habitat characteristics and the activity of intraguild predators and competitors."	USA	Ecology
"Conservation biologists now view species interaction networks as systems that should be targets of conservation, but there are few actual cases in which networks have formed the basis for management strategies. Terrestrial mixed-species bird flocks (hereafter, TMSF) represent one such potential system: they form throughout the world, and in most cases have an asymmetric organization in which one or a few species play 'nuclear' roles, being particularly important for flock formation or maintenance. A quantitative study on the distribution of TMSF and how they respond to anthropogenic disturbance (AD) is still, however, needed. We surveyed 201 publications on terrestrial TMSF worldwide, finding that 19% of the world's bird species participate in them, including 158 threatened species, with tropical species dominating these lists. Of 31 TMSF studies that investigated AD, 22 showed significant declines in some metric, with TMSF in more impacted areas including 1/4 fewer species, and 1/3 fewer individuals. In 13/15 studies, TMSF were more sensitive to AD than the overall bird community. We conceptualize the reasons behind this response: first, AD directly influences drivers of flocking (predation, foraging), and second, AD produces changes in community composition that affect TMSF, such as when the extirpation or reduction of nuclear species affects other species' participation. We rank nuclear species globally by their consistency of leadership and number of followers, suggesting that these species' interactive roles be considered as part of their conservation value, and further that conserving TMSF provides an efficient mechanism to ensure the protection of many species simultaneously."	NonUS	Conservation
"The streaked horned lark (Eremophila alpestris strigata) is a federally-threatened ground-nesting passerine. We investigated range-wide patterns of dispersal by analyzing resight records between 2002 and 2016 from four regions (South Puget Lowlands, Lower Columbia River, Washington Coast, Willamette Valley) and determined frequency and distances of dispersal events for second-year (SY, natal dispersal) and after second-year adults (ASY, breeding dispersal). Of 148 SY adults originally banded as dependent young and subsequently resighted as breeders, 111 (75%) returned to their natal breeding site and 37 (25%) dispersed to new sites. Among the latter, only two individuals dispersed to a different region. For natal dispersers that left their natal site, mean dispersal distance was 20.5 +/- 26.8 km (+/- SD, median = 11.7 km) although most (73%) travelled less than 15 km. Female natal dispersers moved to new sites more frequently than males (29% versus 20%), which is consistent with typical female-biased dispersal in birds. In contrast to SY birds, ASY birds largely remained at the site where they spent their first potential breeding season (68 of 71; 96%). No adults left the region in which they first bred. These patterns of natal dispersal, emigration, and immigration can inform conservation planning by contributing to priorities for land protection."	USA	Conservation
"Ecological communities are structured by interactions between coexisting species that mutually influence their distribution and abundance. Ecologically similar species are expected to exclude one another from suitable habitat, so the coexistence of two mouse lemur species in an assemblage of several closely related cheirogaleid primates in the central Menabe region of Madagascar requires explanation. We assessed the occurrence of Madame Berthe's mouse lemurs (Microcebus berthae) and Gray mouse lemurs (Microcebus murinus), and of two larger cheirogaleids, Coquerel's giant mouse lemur (Mirza coquereli) and the western fat-tailed dwarf lemur (Cheirogaleus medius), by nocturnal line transect walks between 2003 and 2007. We explored interspecific interactions for four different scenarios with varying resource availability (degraded and non-degraded habitat in the wet and dry season), both on the regional spatial scale and on a finer local (transect) scale. We tested whether the interspecific distribution of mouse lemur individuals indicates interspecific competition and whether their regional coexistence might be stabilized by interactions with M. coquereli or C. medius. We developed the Inter-Species Index of Attraction (ISIA) to quantify the observed interspecific interactions within transects and determined if these were significantly different from a null model generated by a combination of randomization and bootstrapping to control for intraspecific aggregation. For the two mouse lemurs, interspecific spatial exclusion was most pronounced during the resource-poor dry season, consistent with the hypothesis of feeding competition. Seasonally varying distribution patterns indicated resource tracking in a spatio-temporally heterogeneous environment. The interspecific distribution of individuals suggested that the larger cheirogaleids benefit M. berthae at the expense of the more abundant M. murinus: spatial associations of both, M. coquereli and C. medius, with M. murinus were negative in most scenarios and across spatial scales, but neutral or even positive with M. berthae. Thus, our study revealed that coexistence among ecologically similar heterospecifics can rely on complex density-mediated interspecific processes varying with habitat quality and season. With regard to the stability of animal assemblages, this insight has major implications for biodiversity conservation."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Adult coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) prematurely die when they return from the ocean to spawn in urban watersheds throughout northwestern North America. The available evidence suggests the annual mortality events are caused by toxic stormwater runoff. The underlying pathophysiology of the urban spawner mortality syndrome is not known, and it is unclear whether closely related species of Pacific salmon are similarly at risk. The present study co-exposed adult coho and chum (O. keta) salmon to runoff from a high traffic volume urban arterial roadway. The spawners were monitored for the familiar symptoms of the mortality syndrome, including surface swimming, loss of orientation, and loss of equilibrium. Moreover, the hematology of both species was profiled by measuring arterial pH, blood gases, lactate, plasma electrolytes, hematocrit, and glucose. Adult coho developed behavioral symptoms within a few hours of exposure to stormwater. Various measured hematological parameters were significantly altered compared to coho controls, indicating a blood acidosis and ionoregulatory disturbance. By contrast, runoff-exposed chum spawners showed essentially no indications of the mortality syndrome, and measured blood hematological parameters were similar to unexposed chum controls. We conclude that contaminant(s) in urban runoff are the likely cause of the disruption of ion balance and pH in coho but not chum salmon. Among the thousands of chemicals in stormwater, future forensic analyses should focus on the gill or cardiovascular system of coho salmon. Because of their distinctive sensitivity to urban runoff, adult coho remain an important vertebrate indicator species for degraded water quality in freshwater habitats under pressure from human population growth and urbanization. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd."	USA	Conservation
"Understanding the habitat use and spatial distribution of wildlife can help conservationists determine high-priority areas and enhance conservation efforts. We studied the wintering habitat use, preference, and utilization distribution of two crane species, that is, the black-necked crane (Grus nigricollis, Przevalski, 1876) and common crane (Grus grus, Linnaeus, 1758), in Huize National Natural Reserve, Yunnan-Guizhou Plateau, southwestern China. Line transects indicated that anthropogenic farmland habitat was highly utilized and was positively selected by both crane species (> 90% of flocks observed for both species). Black-necked cranes preferred marshland in spring (February and March) but avoided grassland during the entire wintering period, whereas common cranes avoided both marshland and grassland throughout the entire period. The two cranes species had communal nightly roosting sites and separate daily foraging sites. Black-necked cranes were distributed within two km (1.89 +/- 0.08 km) of the roosting site, covering an area of 283.84 ha, with the core distribution area encompassing less than 100 ha. In contrast, common cranes were distributed far from the roosting site (4.38 +/- 0.11 km), covering an area of 558.73 ha, with the core distribution area encompassing 224.81 ha. Thus, interspecies competition may have influenced the habitat preference and spatial distribution divergence of these two phylogenetically related species. This study should help guide habitat management as well as functional zoning development and adjustment in the future. Based on our results, we recommend restoration of additional wetlands, retention of large areas of farmland, and protection of areas that cranes use most frequently."	NonUS	Conservation
"In the Mediterranean Sea, gorgonians are among the main habitat-forming species of benthic communities on the continental shelf and slope, playing an important ecological role in coral gardens. In areas where bottom trawling is restricted, gorgonians represent one of the main components of trammel net bycatch. Since gorgonians are long-lived and slow-growing species, impacts derived from fishing activities can have far-reaching and long-lasting effects, jeopardizing their long-term viability. Thus, mitigation and ecological restoration initiatives focusing on gorgonian populations on the continental shelf are necessary to enhance and speed up their natural recovery. Bycatch gorgonians from artisanal fishermen were transplanted into artificial structures, which were then deployed at 85 m depth on the outer continental shelf of the marine protected area of Cap de Creus (north-west Mediterranean Sea, Spain). After 1 year, high survival rates of transplanted colonies (87.5%) were recorded with a hybrid remotely operated vehicle. This pilot study shows, for the first time, the survival potential of bycatch gorgonians once returned to their habitat on the continental shelf, and suggests the potential success of future scaled-up restoration activities."	NonUS	Conservation
"Pygmy sperm whales, Kogia breviceps (Kogiidae), are a small cetacean that inhabits Mesopelagic regions near the continental shelf. In this study we present record of plastic ingestion by K. breviceps in Brazil. In August 2010 on the coast of Rio Grande do SW, a carcass was found showing evidences of interaction with fishing nets. The stomach content was collected for the analysis of food items, but the presence of four plastics weighing 55.9 g was found. In addition, the analysis of food items revealed the presence of the fish Merluccius hubbsi, which is an intensely explored species by fisheries activities in southern Brazil. Merluccius sp. is common in the diet of K. breviceps in several regions of the planet. This work shows that in southern Brazil, K. breviceps suffers intense impact of both ingestion of anthropic material and fisheries, and so must be closely monitored."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Wildlife trade is a threat to species survival and wild collected orchids are a notable component of it. In the first systematic patent review of any wild species, we find many innovative and industrial uses of orchids, using the example of traditional product salep made with wild harvested Mediterranean and Central Asian terrestrial orchids. Despite considerable interest in the conservation of these orchids, no systematic analysis of innovation and technology transfer had been conducted for natural products using them. Our systematic review on salep found 244 patent applications, of which 89 were granted, spanning 163 years from 1855 to 2018. Uses included industrial materials and contemporary medicine formulations. This recalibration of the value of salep using patent analysis shows that, rather than being restricted to two specific products of limited regional circulation, these orchids are a rich source of unique materials with myriad applications around the world. In order to conserve wild terrestrial orchids collected for salep, conservation science must engage with the full extent of the utility of and commercial interest in these particular orchids. Additionally we demonstrate how conservationists can use patents as a source of information on incipient commercial interest in wild species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Marine debris is recognized as a major threat to biodiversity and can be found ubiquitously even in remote regions, including deep-sea environments. Isla del Coco National Park is known as one of the best protected areas around the world, a preferred diving destination, and is also renowned for large aggregations of pelagic species that attract illegal commercial fisheries. Despite its pristine reputation, this study demonstrates that anthropogenic debris can affect this remote and well protected area. Images of marine debris were taken using the DeepSee submersible, mainly plastic litter from fishing gear were found between 200 and 350 m depth. A total of 40 items of debris were found in 5.48% of 365 dives, 60% of the items were plastics, and local boat and fishing activities provided most of litter. Our aim with this research is to raise awareness about the potential problem of solid wastes and fishing gear deposited in the deep environments of Isla del Coco National Park and to explore the potential implications for the ecological integrity of this protected area, including ghost fishing and the possible ingestion of pollutants. These results provide useful management information for the area, especially if one considers the constant pressure of illegal fishing and tourism at Isla del Coco National Park."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Species conservation relies on understanding population demographics, yet this information is lacking for many species and populations. Four stocks of common bottlenose dolphins Tursiops truncatus inhabiting the waters surrounding the main Hawaiian Islands (USA) are exposed to anthropogenic disturbances including fisheries interactions, tourism, naval activities, ocean noise, and contaminants. Although these stocks are managed under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, a demographic assessment has not been undertaken since 2006, and there is currently no information on population trends. We combined regular survey effort with citizen science contributions to estimate apparent survival and annual abundance within each stock using photographs collected between 2000 and 2018. Over this time period, we collected 2818 high-quality identifications of 765 distinctive individuals across all 4 stocks. Analyses of inter-annual movements indicated that individuals exhibit restricted habitat use within stocks, which contributed to non-random sampling. Annual abundance estimates ranged from the 10s to the low 100s. Apparent survival ranged from 0.84 to 0.9, with lower-than-expected estimates in all stocks. Annual abundance estimates declined in 3 of the 4 stocks; however, this decline was not significant for the Kaua'i/Ni'ihau and O'ahu stocks, and may be an artifact of sampling design in all stocks. Given the small population size for these stocks, it is important to closely monitor trends in abundance as a first step in mitigating negative effects of anthropogenic activities. Future efforts should focus on consistent geographic coverage in all stocks to decrease model uncertainty and improve trend assessment."	USA	Conservation
"Long-term ecological research can resolve effects of disturbance on ecosystem dynamics by capturing the scale of disturbance and interactions with environmental changes. To quantify how disturbances interact with long-term directional changes (sea-level rise, freshwater restoration), we studied 17 yr of monthly dissolved organic carbon (DOC), total nitrogen (TN), and phosphorus (TP) concentrations and bacterioplankton productivity across freshwater-to-marine estuary gradients exposed to multiple disturbance events (e.g., droughts, fire, hurricanes, and low-temperature anomalies) and long-term increases in water levels. By studying two neighboring drainages that differ in hydrologic connectivity, we additionally tested how disturbance legacies are shaped by hydrologic connectivity. We predicted that disturbance events would interact with long-term increases in water levels in freshwater and marine ecosystems to increase spatiotemporal similarity (i.e., synchrony) of organic matter, nutrients, and microbial activities. Wetlands along the larger, deeper, and tidally influenced Shark River Slough (SRS) drainage had higher and more variable DOC, TN, and TP concentrations than wetlands along the smaller, shallower, tidally restricted Taylor River Slough/Panhandle (TS/Ph) drainage. Along SRS, DOC concentrations declined with proximity to coast, and increased in magnitude and variability following drought and flooding in 2015 and a hurricane in 2017. Along TS/Ph, DOC concentrations varied by site (higher in marine than freshwater wetlands) but not year. In both drainages, increases in TN from upstream freshwater marshes occurred following fire in 2008 and droughts in 2010 and 2015, whereas downstream increases in TP occurred with coastal storm surge from hurricanes in 2005 and 2017. Decreases in DOC:TN and DOC:TP were explained by increased TN and TP. Increases in bacterioplankton productivity occurred throughout both drainages following low-temperature events (2010 and 2011) and a hurricane (2017). Long-term TN and TP concentrations and bacterioplankton productivity were correlated (r > 0.5) across a range of sampling distances (1-50 km), indicating spatiotemporal synchrony. DOC concentrations were not synchronized across space or time. Our study advances disturbance ecology theory by illustrating how disturbance events interact with long-term environmental changes and hydrologic connectivity to determine the magnitude and extent of disturbance legacies. Understanding disturbance legacies will enhance prediction and enable more effective management of rapidly changing ecosystems."	USA	Ecology
"During the last decade, the common dolphin (Delphinus delphis) has become the second most sighted species in Israeli coastal waters, after the common bottlenose dolphin. Documentation mostly relies on opportunistic, photo and/or video-backed second-party reports, delimited within a 10 km near-shore strip. Sightings occur year round, are confined to the southern part of the Israeli coast and typically comprise relatively large groups (mean +/- SD: 21.5 +/- 13.3), often with young calves. Strandings are relatively scarce, typically one per year, and have so far yielded five upper digestive tract contents for diet analysis. Cephalopods comprised 1.2% of the estimated number of prey items in the combined content. Surprisingly, by far the most abundant and prevalent prey item found (57% of pooled prey items; present and dominant in four out of five tracts) was the Balearic eel (Ariosoma balearicum), a sand burrower which is also a major dietary component of the common bottlenose dolphins. Bottlenose dolphins in Israel are known to forage in association with bottom trawlers, leading to the notion that common dolphins also make use of this foraging mode. Indeed, in addition to their association with purse seiners, they have been documented accompanying bottom trawlers, by both day and night. The slender Balearic eels are frequently found protruding from the net's eyes, presumably making easy prey for both dolphin species. Information gaps on common dolphins include range extension to the south/south-west, abundance estimation and genetic flow/isolation. Even so, its unusual diet and the fact that the closest known populations to the north/north-west are from the Aegean Sea, were major considerations in the recent designation of the 'Coastal Shelf Waters of the South-east Levantine Sea' as a Mediterranean Important Marine Mammal Area."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Vibriois ubiquitously distributed in marine environments and is the most extensively characterized group within Gammaproteobacteria. Studies have investigated Vibrio spp. worldwide, but mostly focused on pathogenic vibrios and based on cultivation methods. Here, using a combination of molecular and culturing methods, we investigated the dynamics of the total and activeVibriospp. throughout the Changjiang estuary in China. The totalVibrioabundance was higher in summer (similar to 6.59 x 10(3) copies ml(-1)) than in winter (similar to 1.85 x 10(3) copies ml(-1)) and increased from freshwater to saltwater (e.g. 8.04 x 10(1) to 9.39 x 10(3) copies ml(-1) in summer). The ratio of active to total Vibrio (Va/Vt) revealed a high activity of vibrios, with remarkable differences between freshwater and saltwater (p < 0.05). Based on the community compositions of the culturable, total and activeVibrio,Vibrio atlanticusand Vibrio owensiiwere the dominant and active species in winter and summer, respectively. The distribution of Vibrio was governed by the effects of diverse environmental factors, such as temperature, salinity, pH, dissolved oxygen and SiO32-. Our study clearly demonstrates the spatiotemporal dynamics of total and active Vibrio spp. and lays a foundation for fully understanding the ecological roles of marineVibrio."	NonUS	Ecology
"The diet and feeding behaviour of the forkbeard Phycis phycis was studied based on 246 stomachs collected between May 2011 and April 2012 from a commercial fleet operating off the central west coast of Portugal. A total of 44 prey items were identified in the stomachs which were merged into major groups to avoid problems with low expected frequencies. The following taxonomic categories were considered: non-decapod Crustacea, Caridea, Anomura, Munida spp., Processa spp., Brachyura, Pisces, Trisopterus luscus. In order to investigate possible diet differences between fish size classes, a cluster analysis was performed using the mean abundance of each prey group by forkbeard 5 cm length class, and three length groups (LG) were obtained: <22.5, 27.5-37.5 and >42.5 cm. Seasonally, Caridea was the main prey group during winter and autumn while Pisces was predominant during the rest of the year. Caridea was the most important prey group for LG1 and LG2 while in LG3 Pisces was the principal one. The forkbeard feeding behaviour may be characterized as presenting a shift pattern from a more generalist diet (small Crustacea, mainly Caridea) in the young adults to a more specialist strategy (teleosts) in the adults."	NonUS	Ecology
"The ecological role of intertidal microphytobenthos (MPB) is increasingly recognized in coastal production systems. MPB primary production (PP) measured in coastal wetlands of Korea, Cambodia, and Australia confirmed large variability at the global scale. Surprisingly, MPB biomass in mangrove forests almost doubled those measured in nearby bare tidal flats. However, MPB productivity (P-b) in vegetated habitats was significantly reduced (by similar to 50%) compared to that on bare tidal flats. Extensive measurements of MPB biomass, PP, and P-b across 12 Korean tidal flats revealed large spatiotemporal variations, suggesting complex sediment-MPB coupled dynamics. The key factors included sediment type, tide, bed elevation, irradiation, temperature, and vegetation. Winter MPB blooms and the elevated P-b seem to be unique characteristics of the Korean intertidal flats. The present study provides the baseline data of MPB PPs in mudflat, saltmarsh, and mangrove habitats in the highly productive zones of the Western Indo-Pacific Rim."	NonUS	Ecology
"Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), originating from anthropogenic and natural sources, are highly concerned environmental pollutants. This study investigated the impact of two model PAHs (pyrene and phenanthrene) on bacterial community succession in the seagrass meadows sediment in a lab-scale microcosm. Halophila ovalis sediment slurry microcosms were established, one group was placed as a control, and the other two were treated with pyrene and phenanthrene. Bacterial community succession in response to respective PAHs was investigated by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. The results demonstrated that bacterial diversity decrease in each microcosm during the incubation process; however, the composition of bacterial communities in each microcosm was significantly different. Proteobacteria (37-89%), Firmicutes (9-41%), and Bacteroides (7-21%) were the predominant group at the phylum levels. Their abundance varies during the incubation process. Several previously reported hydrocarbon-degrading genera, such as Pseudomonas, Spinghobium, Sphingobacterium, Mycobacterium, Pseudoxanthomonas, Idiomarina, Stenotrophomonas, were detected in higher abundance in pyrene- and phenanthrene-treated microcosms. However, these genera were distinctly distributed in the pyrene and phenanthrene treatments, suggesting that certain bacterial groups favorably degrade different PAHs. Statistical analyses, such as ANOSIM and PERMANOVA, also revealed that significant differences existed among the treatments' bacterial consortia (P < 0.05). This work showed that polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon significantly affects bacterial community succession, and different PAHs might influence the bacterial community succession differently."	NonUS	Ecology
"One prerequisite for sustainable fisheries management is to match management actions with biological processes. Stocks are fundamental units for fisheries management. Understanding the spatial structure of fish stocks is critical for conducting defensible stock assessments, applying efficient management strategies, and ensuring the sustainability of fish stocks. Yellow perch (Perca flavescens) is an important fishery in the Great Lakes. The appropriateness of its management units (MUs) has been identified as of high concern by the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission. Here we established integrated nested Laplace approximations and stochastic partial differential equations as two powerful tools for modeling spatiotemporal patterns of fish relative biomass. These fast computational approaches were applied to fit a Bayesian hierarchical hurdle model to occurrence and positive mass of yellow perch caught in gill-net surveys. Yellow perch relative biomass index has clear temporal variation and spatial heterogeneity, with the two middle MUs for yellow perch within Lake Erie merging together. The method explicitly models the spatiotemporal correlation structure inherent in biomass survey data at a reasonable computational cost, and the estimated spatiotemporal correlation informs stock structure."	USA	Fisheries
"Monitoring the growth of salmon during their early marine phase provides insights into prey availability, and growth rates may be linked to risks of size-dependent mortality. However, the measurement of growth rate is challenging for free-living salmon in the ocean. Insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I is a growth-promoting hormone that is emerging as a useful index of growth in salmon. In addition, laboratory-based studies using coho salmon have shown that one of circulating IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs), IGFBP-1b, is induced by fasting and thus could be used as an inverse index of growth and/or catabolic state in salmon. However, few studies have measured plasma levels of IGFBP-1b in salmon in the wild. We measured plasma IGFBP-1b levels for postsmolt coho salmon collected in the Strait of Georgia and surrounding waters, British Columbia, Canada, and compared regional differences in IGFBP-1b to ecological information such as seawater temperature and stomach fullness. Plasma IGFBP-1b levels were the highest in fish from Eastern Johnstone Strait and relatively high in Queen Charlotte Strait and Western Johnstone Strait, which was in good agreement with the poor ocean conditions for salmon hypothesized to occur in that region. The molar ratio of plasma IGF-I to IGFBP-1b, a theoretical parameter of IGF-I availability to the receptor, discriminated differences among regions better than IGF-I or IGFBP-1b alone. Our data suggest that plasma IGFBP-1b reflects catabolic status in postsmolt coho salmon, as highlighted in fish in Eastern Johnston Strait, and is a useful tool to monitor negative aspects of salmon growth in the ocean."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Studies on the nutritional physiology of predator fish in the marine environment have contributed to our understanding of how they adapt to the environment and how they have evolved. Despite the fact that herbivorous and omnivorous fish species are numerous and play a significant role in the ecosystem, there is little information on how they process nutrients and how these are allocated to different tissues. This information could be particularly important for the juvenile stages, when small-sized fish are under high predation pressure and have a limited capability to intake and digest large quantities of food. The mullet Liza aurata ingests surface sediment and obtains its nutritional requirements from the organisms associated with the sediment, including microalgae and bacteria or small invertebrates. This paper examines how the carbon and nitrogen derived from benthic micro-organisms are allocated to the liver and muscle tissues of newborn (young-of-the-year, YOY) and one-year old (OYO) individuals. After the animals were left feeding on C-13-enriched microalgae and N-15-enriched bacteria for 1 h, we traced the C-13 and N-15 in the liver and muscle tissues as well as in the blood and the gut. The YOY allocated 99% of the C-13 and 88% of the N-15 to the muscles, while the liver had a negligible amount of tracers (0.4% and 11% for C-13 and N-15). Conversely, in the OYO experiment, the tracers were uniformly distributed throughout the muscle and liver (57% of C-13 and 45% of N-15 were found in the muscle, whereas 43% of C-13 and 55% of N-15 were in the liver). Negligible amounts were traced in the blood ( < 0.1%), while a part of the tracers was not assimilated and remained in the gut of both YOY and OYO fish. These results indicated a size -related shift in resource allocation during first year of growth of L. aurata, probably related to changes in the survival strategies among juveniles. Our results also indicated that stable isotope enrichment can be a helpful tool for studying resource allocation in fish."	NonUS	Ecology
"The Cuvier's beaked whale (CBW; Ziphius cavirostris) is a cosmopolitan marine mammal found in deep tropical and temperate waters of all oceans. CBW strandings have been recorded sporadically in Brazil; however, there is lack of information available regarding their causes of stranding and/or death. Herein, we report the epidemiologic, pathologic, morphologic parasitologic features and molecular identification of arterial and renal crassicaudiasis by Crassicauda sp. in three geographically and chronologically distant CBW stranded off Brazil. CBW-1 was an adult male stranded dead in Rio Grande do Sul State. CBW-2 was an adult female that stranded alive in Sergipe State and died shortly after. CBW-3 was and adult male that stranded dead in Santa Catarina State. The most relevant pathologic findings in these three CBW were severe, chronic proliferative mesenteric and caudal aortic endarteritis and chronic granulomatous and fibrosing interstitial nephritis with renicular atrophy and loss, and numerous intralesional Crassicauda sp. nematodes. Furthermore, CBW-1 had concomitant gram-negative bacterial pneumonia and pulmonary and hepatic thromboembolism. Morphologic analysis of renal adult nematodes identified Crassicauda sp. in the three CBW. Molecular analyses targeting the 18S and ITS-2 ribosomal loci of renal nematodes in CBW-2 and CBW-3 identified C. anthonyi. It is believed that severe arterial and renal crassicaudiasis likely resulted or contributed significantly to morbidity and death of these animals. These results expand the known geographical range of occurrence of crassicaudiasis in CBW. Specifically, the present study provides the first accounts of arterial and renal crassicaudiasis in CBW off the southern hemisphere, specifically in CBW off Brazil, and to the authors' knowledge, it is the first record of C. anthonyi in the southern Atlantic Ocean."	NonUS	Ecology
"Viruses are highly discriminating in their interactions with host cells and are thought to play a major role in maintaining diversity of environmental microbes. However, large-scale ecological and genomic studies of co-occurring virus-host pairs, required to characterize the mechanistic and genomic foundations of virus-host interactions, are lacking. Here, we present the largest dataset of cultivated and sequenced co-occurring virus-host pairs that captures ecologically representative fine-scale diversity. Using the ubiquitous and ecologically diverse marine Vibrionaceae as a host platform, we isolate and sequence 251 dsDNA viruses and their hosts from three time points within a 93-day time-series study. The virus collection includes representatives of the three Caudovirales tailed virus morphotypes, a novel family of nontailed viruses, and the smallest (10,046 bp) and largest (348,911 bp) Vibrio virus genomes described. We provide general characterization and annotation of the viruses and describe read-mapping protocols to standardize genome presentation. The rich ecological and genomic contextualization of hosts and viruses make the Nahant Collection a unique platform for high-resolution studies of environmental virus-host infection networks."	USA	Ecology
"Early detection and rapid response plans are a set of principles to reduce the establishment, spread and impact of invasive species and it is a critical step in management in marine ecosystems. Two potentially invasive ascidians attached to the hull of a recently sunk fishing vessel were early detected in Patagonia. With the aim of assisting in the management decision-making process during the early steps of a rapid response, we conducted several analyses through different approaches. First, we identified the species through classic taxonomical and genetic analyses. Then, we evaluated the regional and international shipping connectivity to study potential donor regions and finally, we used species distribution models (SDMs) to predict the potential distribution of these species. The potentially invasive ascidians were identified as Styela clava and Styela plicata, and this is the first record for both species in the Nuevo gulf, Patagonia Argentina. Both species have a widespread distribution around the world with strong ecological and economic impacts documented. Shipping traffic analysis suggested that S. plicata could have arrived by secondary spread from regional ports, while the arrival of S. clava was likely to be associated with international shipping traffic. Furthermore, the SDM predicted that S. clava has suitable coastal areas along the entire Southwestern Atlantic shoreline, where it is currently absent. On the contrary, the SDM predicted that further southward spread of S. plicata is unlikely, being limited by the minimum annual temperature. We discussed the different approaches, tools, and expertise integrated in this work in the light of the decision-making process for the early detection of marine invasive species in the Southwestern Atlantic. Moreover, we call attention to the increased creation of artificial habitats through the intentional sinking of ships and the potential consequences of these actions in the conservation of marine ecosystems."	NonUS	Conservation
"Using a spatially explicit framework with low/middle-income country coastal characteristics, we explore whether aspatial policies augment the impact of marine protected areas (MPAs) and identify when MPAs create income burdens on communities. When MPAs are small and budget-constrained, they cannot resolve all of the marinescape's open-access issues, but they can create win-win opportunities for ecological and economic goals at lower levels of enforcement. Aspatial policies-taxes, gear restrictions, license restrictions, and livelihood programs-improve the MPA's ability to generate ecological gains, and licenses and livelihood policies can mitigate MPA-induced income burdens. Managers can use MPA location and enforcement level, in conjunction with the MPA's impact on fish dispersal, to induce exit from fishing and to direct the spatial leakage of effort. Our framework provides further insights for conservation-development policy in coastal settings, and we explore stylized examples in Costa Rica and Tanzania."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"Aim As anthropogenic stressors on the biosphere intensify, understanding how communities respond to disturbances is critical. Biodiversity is often thought to promote the stability of communities over time and enhance ecosystem functioning. However, results have been inconsistent, and the multifaceted linkages among diversity, stability and functioning under acute disturbances remain poorly understood. We experimentally tested the responses of marine fish communities to disturbance (i.e., acute habitat loss) across a diversity gradient spanning 35 degrees of latitude in the western Atlantic Ocean to assess the diversity-stability relationship and the interplay between diversity, stability, and fish biomass recovery (as a proxy for function) in marine fish communities. Location Western Atlantic Ocean [Maine, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Florida (USA), Belize and Panama]. Time period 2016-2017. Major taxa studied Small, bottom-dwelling ('cryptobenthic') fishes. Methods We experimentally tested the response of marine fish communities to disturbance across a diversity gradient on human-made dock pilings. We holistically sampled cryptobenthic fish communities, then we imposed a severe disturbance by removing all benthic epifauna. We then compared the community stability, defined as the constancy in community composition, on disturbed and undisturbed pilings after one year. Results Diversity showed a negative effect on community stability at both the regional (across docks) and local (within docks) scales. Similarly, local diversity was negatively correlated with ecosystem function. These effects are exacerbated by the habitat loss imposed via our experimental treatment. Main conclusions Our results suggest that habitat loss may re-shuffle diverse, tropical communities more intensively than species-poor, temperate communities, which impacts biomass recovery, our proxy of functioning. Contrary to ecological theory, in small-bodied, benthos-associated vertebrate communities, biodiversity may neither promote stability nor functioning, suggesting that human disturbances may be particularly impactful in tropical, high-diversity ecosystems."	NonUS	Ecology
"A bathymetric transect in the north coast of Crete first studied in 1989, was revisited 24 years later. Identical sampling design, season, techniques and protocols were followed in both studies in order to minimize bias in the long-term comparisons. This comprehensive macrofaunal dataset (4 stations, 2 sampling seasons, 7 replicates in each study) revealed changes in benthic diversity and community composition between the sampling periods. The recorded changes were higher at the stations located close to the coastal zone. In addition, while benthic communities showed lower total abundance during the recent sampling period, species abundances were more evenly distributed indicating that some species dominated the historical communities. In spite of these changes, the ecological status remained above the threshold values for good ecological status. The results indicated that changes in the benthic community seem to have been driven by local anthropogenic factors and natural variability rather than by large-scale factors such as nutrients influxes in the entire Mediterranean Basin."	NonUS	Ecology
"The grapsoid crab Xenograpsus inhabiting shallow-water hydrothermal vents shows a limited distribution in the western Pacific, thus providing a good opportunity to observe how a species expands its distribution and establishes and maintains a metapopulation. We analyzed four Japanese populations of Xenograpsus (Kueishan-dao, Showa Iwo-jima, Shikine-jima, and Omuro-dashi) distributed along the Kuroshio Current to assess whether population connectivity is affected by the current. The reconstructed phylogenetic tree indicated that the specimens analyzed belong to a single clade, including X. testudinatus in Kueishan-dao. We could not include genetic data of X. novaeinsularis and tentatively refer to the specimens analyzed as X. testudinatus. All four populations shared the two major haplotypes. Statistically significant population differentiation was nevertheless recognized between Showa Iwo-jima and Omuro-dashi, about 1,000 km apart. The number of individuals analyzed in Shikine-jima (N = 11) and Kueishan-dao (N = 5) might not be enough to detect differences. The relative age of population expansion seemed to correlate with the direction of the Kuroshio Countercurrent. Together with knowledge on the distribution of the planktonic larvae, larvae of X. testudinatus stay and mostly contribute to its source population. The Kuroshio Current system occasionally transports the larvae and juveniles, or even adult individuals on floating pumice and other materials, to eventually settle into newly formed habitats after volcanic eruptions, thus expanding the distributional range of the species."	NonUS	Genetics
"The aquatic ape hypothesis for human evolution can account for all the traits that distinguish humans from chimpanzees. This scientific paradigm has been considered impossible. It would require that human ancestors maintained a semiaquatic lifestyle for millions of years, whereas hominin fossils indicate relatively dry terrestrial environments. Here I propose a marine aquatic evolution that is speculative, but compatible with all the fossil and genetic evidence. In this hypothesis, hominins evolved from chimpanzee-like apes that became stranded on proto-Bioko-new volcanic islands with no terrestrial foods available. The apes were forced to eat shellfish and seaweed. From wading in water on two legs to obtain food, their bodies evolved to become bipedal. Naked skin, blubber, and protruding noses were also aquatic adaptations. Brain-size increase resulted from marine fatty acid DHA. Some of these hominins escaped to mainland Africa and their bipedal descendants are recorded at the famous fossil sites. The volcanic islands grew and evolved into Bioko, and the hominins that remained there evolved into Homo sapiens. They gave up their marine diet and semiaquatic habitat after food became available on the evolving island. Then, during one of the low sea-level stands in the Pleistocene epoch, humans walked to the mainland on the emergent Bioko land bridge. Unlike earlier aquatic ape ideas, the Bioko scenario can be tested by DNA. If the human genome includes a retrovirus that is otherwise only found in endemic animals on Bioko, it would show that our ancestors came from there. Unfortunately, Bioko and west-central Africa are not interesting to traditional paleoanthropologists, because they do not contain fossils."	NonUS	Genetics
"Collecting data for reports on online wildlife trade is resource-intensive and time-consuming. Learning often focuses on the main item traded by each country only. However, online trade is increasing, providing potential to update the conversation from a national scale to a global scale. We demonstrate how hierarchical clustering can identify wildlife items that follow similar trading patterns. We also ordinate the clusters, and seek correlations between the clusters and global measures, such as Worldwide Governance Indicators. We primarily use a sample dataset from a published report of online traded wildlife, covering 16 countries and 31 taxa or product types. Clustering provided immediate insights, such as rhinos and pangolins were traded similarly to ivory and suspected ivory. Five out of eight clusters represented items predominately traded by one country. An ordination of these clusters, and representation of global measures on the ordination axis, show a strong correlation of the 'Voice and accountability' score with the clusters. Consequently, from the 'Voice and accountability' score of the United States, a country not included in our dataset, we inferred that it traded elephant items (not ivory) and owl items during 2014."	NonUS	Technology
"Three Florida pumas (Puma concolor coryi) that had spent time in captivity prior to being released in the wild were found exhibiting respiratory signs and reluctance to move. All 3 pumas died shortly after immobilization, despite supportive veterinary care. Significant autopsy findings included necrotizing interstitial pneumonia, with pulmonary edema and hyaline membranes, and suppurative myocarditis. Organisms morphologically consistent with Bartonella henselae were identified in intravascular histiocytes in the lung of one of the pumas on histopathology and confirmed via transmission electron microscopy. B. henselae was detected in fresh lung tissue and confirmed by PCR and sequence analysis (16S-23S spacer region, pap31, and rpoB genes) from one of the affected pumas. In all affected pumas, B. henselae was detected by PCR in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lung tissue, and positively staining organisms were identified in sections of lung by immunohistochemistry for B. henselae. In situ hybridization detected B. henselae DNA in lung tissue from 2 of 3 affected pumas. Our case series suggests that B. henselae can be associated with a fatal disease syndrome in Florida pumas. The cause of susceptibility to fatal disease associated with B. henselae infection in these pumas remains unknown."	USA	Health
"The cockle Cerastoderma edule is one of the most common macrofauna species in the Wadden Sea areas of the North Sea. Cockle population dynamics are influenced by various abiotic and biotic factors such as temperature, food availability, and interand intraspecific competition. Cockles play an important role in the food web of the Wadden Sea, for instance, large shellfish-eating birds, such as oystercatchers and common eiders, use the cockle C. edule and the blue mussel Mytilus edulis as a main diet component. However, the populations of shellfish-eating bird species have been declining dramatically across the Wadden Sea since the beginning of the 21st century. While there are detailed monitoring programs in blue mussels due to commercial interests, little information is known about the stocks and long-term dynamics of cockles in the German Wadden Sea. To fill this gap, in 2005 a local conservation society (Der Mellumrat e.V.) initiated a study to sample cockles at one transect per year south of the island of Mellum, which was extended by 5 more transects in 2011. In addition to the spatial analysis, we analyzed the long-term variability in cockle population dynamics. Min/max autocorrelation factor analysis (MAFA) revealed a decline in cockle abundance, while no clear length trends were found. Canonical and spearman correlation analyses exposed significant correlations between cockle abundance and length and chlorophyll a, mussel bank area as well as oystercatcher and common eider populations. This study clearly shows that there is an urgent need for comprehensive time series of cockle data to analyze and explain ecological long-term changes in cockle population dynamics in relation to environmental changes and to point out how parts of the Wadden Sea food web, such as shellfish-eating birds are affected by these changes."	NonUS	Ecology
"Context. Striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) occur across a wide range of habitats in North America and co-occur with many wildlife that use similar denning structures. Few studies have quantified interspecific activity at striped skunk dens despite the concomitant implications for pathogen transmission due to direct and indirect contact at shared dens. Further, no studies have examined differences in striped skunk denning behaviour across an urban-rural gradient with various forms and degrees of human modification. Aims. Our study described striped skunk denning behaviour in the lower Midwestern United States and assessed interspecific activity at dens. Methods. We used radiotelemetry and camera traps to observe winter denning behaviour of radiocollared striped skunks and other sympatric species across an urban-rural gradient in southern Illinois, USA, during November-February 2018-2021. We examined correlations between striped skunks and other species captured in photos at dens. We tested for an effect of human modification on the number of dens used by striped skunks, and the effects of weather and landscape variables on striped skunk denning duration. Key results. Striped skunks used 3-21 unique dens during a single winter and denned consecutively in one location for 2-59 days. All individuals were observed denning for >= 8 consecutive days. Three striped skunks participated in communal denning, and <= 3 striped skunks were observed at a den concurrently. Eleven mammalian species were observed at striped skunk dens, and other species were present in 35.3% of photos. Striped skunk presence at a den was positively associated with Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) presence. Human modification had no significant effect on the number of dens used by a striped skunk. Human modification, distance to stream/shoreline, and mean daily temperature had significant negative effects on striped skunk denning duration. Conclusions. We demonstrated that winter denning behaviour of striped skunks in southern Illinois, USA, fits into a latitudinal gradient of behaviour across North America, and dens are a shared resource where direct and indirect intraspecific and interspecific interactions occur. Implications. Weather and landscape features influenced winter denning behaviour of striped skunks and ultimately pathogen transmission potential at dens, trends that could potentially be seen in other urban-adapted species."	USA	Ecology
"Spatial conservation prioritization is used worldwide for designing marine protected areas (MPA) that achieve set conservation objectives with minimal impacts to marine users. People involved in small-scale fisheries (SSF) may incur negative and disproportionate impacts from implementing MPAs, yet limited available data often restricts their representation in MPA planning. Using a Philippines case study, we focus here on the systematic design of a MPA network that aims to minimize and distribute costs equitably for SSF whilst achieving representation targets for biodiversity conservation. The objectives of the study are to: (1) document a participatory mapping approach for collecting SSF data for prioritization using the local knowledge of fishers; and (2) examine how the completeness and resolution of SSF data may affect prioritization outputs in terms of biodiversity representation, spatial efficiency, and distribution equity. In the data-poor region, we conducted participatory mapping workshops with fishers in 79 communities to collect data on the spatial distribution patterns of different SSF fisheries and communities, and employed remote sensing techniques to define coastal habitats, which were targeted for inclusion in MPAs. The datasets were integrated within the decision-support tool Marxan with Zones to develop three scenarios. The SSF data incorporated in each scenario varied based on their completeness (considered all fishing methods or only dominant methods) and resolution (fishing methods itemized by community or municipality). All scenarios derived MPA plans that met representation targets with similar area coverage. The outputs, however, varied in terms of distribution equity, measured by the distribution of opportunity costs (loss of fishing grounds) across different fisheries and communities. Scenarios that did not include minority fisheries or variations between communities, led to inequitable costs. These results highlight the need to incorporate detailed data on SSF at appropriate resolutions, and how this can be achieved through participatory approaches."	NonUS	Conservation
"Shelf morphology and sedimentary regimes are influenced by processes operating at different temporal and spatial scales and are important records of sea level changes and sediment supply and/or carbonate production. The northern continental shelf of Espirito Santo (Brazil) contains evidence of different sedimentary regimes that distribute diverse and complex marine habitats. Herein, seabed morphology, acoustic images of the seafloor (side scan sonar and sub-bottom profiler), and sediment samples were used to investigate the influence of sedimentary regimes on physical marine habitat distribution. Seabed mapping is also integrated with available data on fisheries to understand the influence of shelf morphology and sedimentology in the usage of distinct fishing gears. The results indicate five morpho-sedimentary facies: terrigenous mud, terrigenous sand, rhodolith beds, carbonate gravel with rhodoliths, and hardground. Through an integrated analysis of the geomorphology and sedimentary distribution, two morpho-sedimentary domains were identified: a sediment-fed shelf adjacent to the Doce River associated with a major mud depocenter and a delta front morphology characterized by gentle slopes and low terrain ruggedness, and a sediment-starved shelf dominated by carbonate sedimentation showing an irregular morphology associated with higher slopes and terrain ruggedness. These contrasting morpho-sedimentary domains are a result of sedimentary responses to sea level fluctuation during Late Quaternary, specially, during the deglaciation processes after the Last Glacial Maximum. The morphological and sedimentary contrasts along the area define the physical habitat distribution. The sediment supply regime area is associated with a terrigenous fine/muddy sedimentation bed, which control the local morphology and favors coastal and delta front progradation. This physical habitat is a well-known shrimp-fishing ground where intense trawling takes place, as well as gillnet fisheries targeting weakfish and croakers. The accommodation regime or low sediment influx area is characterized by carbonate sedimentation associated with hardgrounds and rhodolith beds. In contrast, this physical habitat with scarce sediment supply, facilitates extensive benthic colonization by crustose coralline algae (CCA), which is primarily associated to line fisheries, longlines, and spearfishing. Rhodoliths show a high diversity of CCA and the occurrence of an endemic kelp species. Long-term processes such as relative sea level fluctuations and sediment supply are a legacy for the distribution of benthic habitats, and their resulting morphology can be a surrogate for predicting fishing activities or a first-base analysis for marine spatial planning. Available low-resolution bathymetric datasets can be a powerful tool, if applied with caution and in a regional scale approach. Here, terrain variables (terrain slope and ruggedness) derived from an extensive available (low-resolution and interpolated) bathymetric dataset distinguished two contrasting morphological domains characterized by rugged and smooth/flat seabeds."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding the spatial and temporal dynamics of the fish-assemblage structure of estuaries is indispensable in conservation and habitat-improvement efforts. This study reports seasonal as well as spatial dynamics of fish diversity of the Waikouaiti Estuary and indicates the key physicochemical variables that influence the ichthyofauna of the estuary. Fish were collected from upper, middle and lower reaches of the Waikouaiti Estuary monthly for 1 year, by using a seine net. In total, 15 species and 4967 individuals were collected during the study period. Distinct differences in ichthyofaunal composition, driven by spatiotemporal environmental heterogeneity, were observed between the three reaches of the Waikouaiti Estuary. Fish abundance was higher in the middle reach where the water is turbid. Whereas fish species with diadromous life history occurred more frequently in the upper reach of the estuary, marine-migrants and marine-stragglers were abundant in the lower reach. The present study indicated that salinity and turbidity were the best predictors of fish species composition in the different reaches of the Waikouaiti Estuary."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Xestospongia muta is among the most emblematic sponge species inhabiting coral reefs of the Caribbean Sea. Besides being the largest sponge species growing in the Caribbean, it is also known to produce secondary metabolites. This study aimed to assess the effect of depth and season on the symbiotic bacterial dynamics and major metabolite profiles of specimens of X. muta thriving in a tropical marine biome (Portobelo Bay, Panama), which allow us to determine whether variability patterns are similar to those reported for subtropical latitudes. The bacterial assemblages were characterized using Illumina deep-sequencing and metabolomic profiles using UHPLC-DAD-ELSD from five depths (ranging 9-28m) across two seasons (spring and autumn). Diverse symbiotic communities, representing 24 phyla with a predominance of Proteobacteria and Chloroflexi, were found. Although several thousands of OTUs were determined, most of them belong to the rare biosphere and only 23 to a core community. There was a significant difference between the structure of the microbial communities in respect to season (autumn to spring), with a further significant difference between depths only in autumn. This was partially mirrored in the metabolome profile, where the overall metabolite composition did not differ between seasons, but a significant depth gradient was observed in autumn. At the phyla level, Cyanobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Spirochaete showed a mild-moderate correlation with the metabolome profile. The metabolomic profiles were mainly characterized by known brominated polyunsaturated fatty acids. This work presents findings about the composition and dynamics of the microbial assemblages of X. muta expanding and confirming current knowledge about its remarkable diversity and geographic variability as observed in this tropical marine biome."	NonUS	Ecology
"Terpene content of two distinct collections of the nudibranch Phyllidia coelestis from the South China Sea has been chemically analyzed. A series of amphilectene diterpenes, most likely of dietary origin, with isocyano and formamido functionalities have been isolated from both collections and spectroscopically characterized by an exhaustive nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis. Interestingly, the structural architecture of compounds 5-7 and 9 with both 8,13-cis and 12,13-cis ring junctions is unprecedented in the amphilectene skeleton. Metabolite 3, which was the most abundant in the nudibranch's mantle, has been shown to deter feeding by a generalist predator, supporting its involvement in chemical defense."	NonUS	Ecology
"Although Brook Trout are distributed across most of eastern North America, population numbers have declined in many regions due to habitat loss, climate change, and competition with non-native species. In New York State, Brook Trout habitat has been substantially reduced, with many areas showing complete extirpation of Brook Trout populations, predominantly in the western portion of the state. Small, fragmented populations are at risk of genetic diversity loss, inbreeding depression, and reduced fitness, leading to a greater potential for local extirpation. Genetic monitoring is a practical tool that can facilitate further conservation-decision making regarding small populations. In this study, we used 12 microsatellite loci to examine 3,436 sampled Brook Trout, representing 75 sites from the Allegheny, Erie/Niagara, Genesee, Oswego, Lake Ontario, and Susquehanna drainage basins throughout western New York State. Three Brook Trout hatchery strains were also genetically characterized to evaluate the degree of hatchery introgression between wild populations and hatchery strains stocked in the region. Overall, estimates of genetic diversity varied widely: Allelic richness ranged from 2.23 to 7.485, and expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.402 to 0.766. As observed for Brook Trout in other regions, we found a high degree of genetic differentiation among populations, with all comparisons except one showing significant F-ST values. Hatchery introgression was found to be minimal, with estimates ranging from 1.96% to 3.10% of wild individuals exhibiting membership proportions to a hatchery strain cluster exceeding 10% (q >= 0.10). Results from this investigation can be used to prioritize management efforts for Brook Trout in western New York State and act as a baseline to monitor future population trends."	USA	Genetics
"Relatively little is known about the role of sponge microbiomes in the Antarctic marine environment, where sponges may dominate the benthic landscape. Specifically, we understand little about how taxonomic and functional diversity contributes to the symbiotic lifestyle and aids in nutrient cycling. Here we use functional metagenomics to investigate the community composition and metabolic potential of microbiomes from two abundant Antarctic sponges, Leucetta antarctica and Myxilla sp. Genomic and taxonomic analyses show that both sponges harbor a distinct microbial community with high fungal abundance, which differs from the surrounding seawater. Functional analyses reveal both sponge-associated microbial communities are enriched in functions related to the symbiotic lifestyle (e.g., CRISPR system, Eukaryotic-like proteins, and transposases), and in functions important for nutrient cycling. Both sponge microbiomes possessed genes necessary to perform processes important to nitrogen cycling (i.e., ammonia oxidation, nitrite oxidation, and denitrification), and carbon fixation. The latter indicates that Antarctic sponge microorganisms prefer light-independent pathways for CO2 fixation mediated by chemoautotrophic microorganisms. Together, these results show how the unique metabolic potential of two Antarctic sponge microbiomes help these sponge holobionts survive in these inhospitable environments, and contribute to major nutrient cycles of these ecosystems."	NonUS	Ecology
"High-altitude nocturnal insect migrations are ubiquitous and represent significant pulses of biomass, which impact large areas and multiple trophic levels, yet are difficult to study and poorly understood. Predation on migratory insects by high-flying bats provides potential for investigating flows of migratory insects across a landscape. Brazilian free-tailed bats, Tadarida brasiliensis, provide valuable ecosystem services by consuming migratory pests, and research suggests migratory insects are an important resource to bats in autumn. We sequenced insect DNA from bat feces collected during the 2010-2012 autumn migrations of insects over southern Texas, and tested the utility of predator-prey interactions for monitoring migratory insect populations by asking: 1) how extensively do bats consume migratory insects during autumn? (2) does the prey community reflect known drivers of insect migrations, e.g. cold fronts? and (3) are migratory insects increasingly important to bats when local food resources decline in autumn? Bats consumed at least 21 species of migratory insects and 44 species of agricultural pests. Prey community richness increased with cold front passage. Bats consumed migratory moths over the entire autumn season, and the proportion of migratory moths in the bat diet increased over the course of the autumn season in all 3 years. This study confirms extensive consumption of migratory insects by bats, links patterns in prey communities to mechanisms driving insect migration, and documents a novel approach to tracking patterns of migratory insect movement. As an important resource for T. brasiliensis in autumn, migratory insects provide stabilizing effects to the local animal community."	USA	Ecology
"Defining the home range of vulnerable species is critical for designing effective spatial management strategies. However, animal home ranges often change with ontogeny, and quantifying the associated temporal and spatial changes is particularly challenging for mobile marine species. Here, we investigated how the space use of a top predatory reef-associated fish (giant trevally Caranx ignobilis) scales with body size. Fish were tagged with acoustic transmitters and passively tracked for > 3 yr at a tropical island and atoll in the Republic of Seychelles. A sheltered atoll environment was critical for juvenile fish (< 60 cm fork length, FL) that exhibited a shift in home range location and area as they matured into adults. Small (60-100 cm FL) and large (>100 cm FL) adult fish appeared to favour shallow coral reefs and associated reef drop offs whilst sharing a similar core home range location. Large adult fish utilized a greater diversity of habitat types and had significantly (p < 0.05) greater annual dispersal distances (mean = 35.29 km, max = 91.32 km) than small adults (mean = 13.72 km, max = 21.55 km). Additionally, the home range of large adults (mean = 209.74 km(2)) was significantly (p < 0.05) larger than that of juveniles (mean = 38.73 km(2)) and small adults (77.32 km(2)) and there was a significant (p = 0.02) relationship between fish length and home range size. Furthermore, tagged fish took up to 34 mo (mean = 18.54 mo) to utilize the full extent of their home range. The habitat shift and expansion in home range size throughout ontogeny should be taken into account when designing effective spatial management plans for C. ignobilis."	NonUS	Ecology
"Artificial light at night (ALAN) has rapidly and drastically changed the global nocturnal environment. Evidence for the effect of ALAN on animal behaviour is mounting and animals are exposed to both point sources of light (street and other surrounding light sources) and broadscale illuminance in the form of skyglow. Research has typically taken a simplified approach to assessing the presence of ALAN, yet to fully understand the ecological impact requires consideration of the different scales and sources of light concurrently. Bird song has previously been well studied for its relationship with light, offering an opportunity to examine the relative impact of different sources of light on behaviour. In this study, we combine correlational and experimental approaches to examine how light at night affects the nocturnal song behaviour of the largely diurnal willie wagtail (Rhipidura leucophrys). Observations of willie wagtails across urban and rural locations in southeastern Australia demonstrated that nocturnal song behaviour increased with the intensity of moonlight in darker rural areas but decreased in areas with high sky glow. In addition, willie wagtails were half as likely to sing at night in the presence of localized light sources such as streetlights in urban and rural areas. Experimental introduction of streetlights to a previously dark area confirmed this relationship: willie wagtail song rates declined when lights were turned on and returned to their original rates following streetlight removal. Our findings show that scale, as well as intensity, are important when considering the impact of light at night as moonlight, sky glow, and localized sources of artificial light have different effects on nocturnal song behaviour."	NonUS	Ecology
"Knowledge of population structure, connectivity, and effective population size remains limited for many marine apex predators, including the bull shark Carcharhinus leucas. This large-bodied coastal shark is distributed worldwide in warm temperate and tropical waters, and uses estuaries and rivers as nurseries. As an apex predator, the bull shark likely plays a vital ecological role within marine food webs, but is at risk due to inshore habitat degradation and various fishing pressures. We investigated the bull shark's global population structure and demographic history by analyzing the genetic diversity of 370 individuals from 11 different locations using 25 microsatellite loci and three mitochondrial genes (CR, nd4, and cytb). Both types of markers revealed clustering between sharks from the Western Atlantic and those from the Western Pacific and the Western Indian Ocean, with no contemporary gene flow. Microsatellite data suggested low differentiation between the Western Indian Ocean and the Western Pacific, but substantial differentiation was found using mitochondrial DNA. Integrating information from both types of markers and using Bayesian computation with a random forest procedure (ABC-RF), this discordance was found to be due to a complete lack of contemporary gene flow. High genetic connectivity was found both within the Western Indian Ocean and within the Western Pacific. In conclusion, these results suggest important structuring of bull shark populations globally with important gene flow occurring along coastlines, highlighting the need for management and conservation plans on regional scales rather than oceanic basin scale."	NonUS	Genetics
"A multi-parameter dataset from 13 Florida estuaries demonstrated complications that multiple gradients (the estuarine gradient complex, EGC)(-1) impose when trying to characterize species distributions using regression based analyses. Variation in the beta diversity of assemblages consisting of 974 taxa in four groups (ichthyoplankton, invertebrate zooplankton, seine nekton, trawl nekton) were assessed using 29 habitat factors. Habitat data were obtained from measurements made during biotic collections, associated characterizations of local habitats, data obtained from the United States Environmental Protection Agency Storage and Retrieval database, and from data that characterized the timing and magnitude of freshwater inflow and turnover. When all habitat factors were used in multivariate regression models (distance-based redundancy analysis, dbRDA) with the objective of explaining variation in beta diversity, the models accounted for as much as 52% of the variation and included factors such as salinity, color, water temperature, distance to the Gulf of Mexico, water depth, presence of mud bottom, and the amount of freshwater input. Habitat factors that contributed to the EGC were identified by performing correlation analyses between each habitat factor and distance to the Gulf of Mexico. This step indicated that, in surface-fed estuaries, submerged aquatic vegetation, mangroves, and warmer temperatures were more common downstream, and lower pH, deeper depths, lower bottom dissolved oxygen, lawn-and-tree shorelines, and manmade bottom substrates were more common upstream. In spring-fed estuaries, oysters and mangroves were more common downstream, and lawn-and-tree shorelines were more common upstream. These correlated factors were used to represent the EGC and were explicitly included in dbRDAs where they explained as much as 78% of the variability in beta diversity. A subsequent partial-dbRDA was performed on the variation that was not explained by EGC habitat factors, and non-EGC factors (freshwater inputs, artificial shorelines, shoreline slope, and the presence of sand bottom) explained as much as an additional 7% of the variability. These results demonstrate the complications inherent in assigning influence to any one habitat factor in estuaries where many habitat factors covary spatially. The substantial amount of beta diversity variation explained by the EGC indicates a goal of estuarine management should be to promote heterogeneity in habitat factors contained in the EGC to maintain overall community diversity."	USA	Ecology
"Reported effects of Ebola on western lowland gorillas in the last years of the Twentieth Century brought the underestimated threat that infectious diseases pose to wildlife to the forefront of the international conservation community. Human-borne parasites have since been acknowledged to threaten different species of wildlife and particularly African great apes (Bonobos Pan paniscus, Pan troglodytes, and gorillas Gorilla gorilla) that were documented to contract diseases that affect human communities. The chapter examines 6 diseases, which have been documented to be transmitted between wildlife and humans and provides a short description of each type and its mode of transmission and discusses its potential to affecting wild bonobos within the ecological conditions in the species range and the regional biogeography."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Cape anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus is an ecologically and economically important pelagic fish species occurring along the coast of South Africa. A recent eastward shift in Cape anchovy distribution indicates that environmental conditions are becoming more favorable for the species on the east coast. This shift is particularly important in the sheltered Algoa Bay region, a nursery area for fish larvae. However, the relatively low productivity of the Agulhas Current Large Marine Ecosystem on the eastern coast of South Africa may result in an anchovy population in poorer nutritional condition and with slower growth rates than the west coast population. Using otolith and nucleic acid analyses, the growth rates of anchovy larvae from the western and southeastern coasts of South Africa were compared. The otolith analysis results indicated that, at any given age, individual growth rates for anchovy larvae were higher on the southeast coast than on the west coast. The RNA:DNA values also indicated that instantaneous growth rates of anchovy larvae were higher in Algoa Bay than on the west coast. At the time of sampling, chlorophyll and zooplankton productivity were higher at sampling sites in Algoa Bay than sites on the west coast, potentially due to favorable oceanographic features in the bay. As such, the results suggest that Algoa Bay is a suitable and potentially favorable nursery area for the early stages of anchovy, highlighting the importance of separate management of the southeast coast region in a changing world."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Zoological nomenclature revisions are essential for biodiversity studies and indispensable to avoid naming and description of already described species and should be valued in all subsequent studies considering biology, molecular biology, ecology or habitat mapping of deep-sea species. Herein, a thorough revision of the taxonomic literature on Octocorallia since the beginning of deep-sea exploration in the Azores is provided. Since 1870, when the first octocoral, Virgularia mirabilis (Muller, 1776), was recorded in the Azores a cyclic pattern on the taxonomical study of octocorals reveals the deep-sea investigation efforts made on the region at different periods: Prince Albert I of Monaco, Biacores and recent expeditions. The first decade of this millennium was the peak on taxonomic research of cold-water octocorals in the Azores with 11 publications targeting gorgonians and soft corals (Alcyonacea) and specific sub-orders within it. Ninety-eight names of Octocorallia were found to be given in the economic exclusive zone of the Azores. While 25 names were changed or added to the known Azorean octocoral diversity, 3 species identified in the region and unreported in the reviewed literature, increase the number to 101 species. Twenty-five names were synonymized while three species names were unmasked as errors in need of taxonomical clarification. This is the highest species richness of Octocorallia found in Europe and in any Northern Atlantic archipelago so far, representing similar to 60% of the most diverse center of endemism of South Africa, with a part in the Eastern Atlantic. Further research on taxonomy may reveal new species to science."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"The French southern marine subregion of the Bay of Biscay presents local environmental features explaining the presence of specific communities in remarkable habitats. The aim of the study is, for the first time, to assess benthic macrofaunal assemblages and to identify indicator species of each assemblage within intertidal boulder field habitats in this marine subregion. Mobile boulders were sampled with a stratified random sampling design in upper and lower midlittoral zones in March-June 2015. Sessile (in percentage cover) and mobile macrofauna (in abundance) communities were identified and counted within 0.1 m(2) quadrats. Ecological function and precision between the two groups were found dissimilar thus species richness, abundance, macrofauna distribution and indicator species/taxa of sessile and mobile macrofauna were analyzed separately. 78 species/taxa of macrofauna were recorded. A restricted list of 12 singletons (8 for mobile and 4 for sessile macrofauna) and 33 combinations of species/taxa were identified as significant indicators of each assemblage. Species ecological features (food webs, signs of disturbance, alien species, biogeographical range limit) were also considered as additional selection criteria. Therefore, species with a high ecological interest but not considered statistically as valid indicators were also highlighted. Thus, this work constitutes a framework for future monitoring of the Basque intertidal rocky shore and could be used as an alternative to sampling the entire biodiversity. It also meets the MSFD requirements (e.g. take into account marine subregion specificities; integrate the metric macrofauna and supports several descriptors as the D1 Biodiversity and D6 Seafloor integrity). (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Protected areas not allowing extractive activities (here called fully protected area) are a spatially explicit conservation management tool commonly used to ensure populations persistence. This is achieved when an adequate fraction of a species' population spends most of its time within the boundaries of the protected area. Within a marine context, home ranges represent a tractable metric to provide guidance and evaluation of fully protected areas. We compiled peer-reviewed literature specific to the home ranges of finfishes and invertebrates of ecological and/or commercial importance in the Mediterranean Sea, and related this to the size of 184 Mediterranean fully protected areas. We also investigated the influence of fully protected areas size on fish density in contrast to fished areas with respect to home ranges. Home range estimations were available for 11 species (10 fishes and 1 lobster). The European spiny lobster Palinurus elephas had the smallest home range (0.0039 +/- 0.0014 km(2); mean +/- 1 SE), while the painted comber Serranus scriba (1.1075 +/- 0.2040 km(2)) had the largest. Approximately 25% of Mediterranean fully protected areas are larger than 2 times the size of the largest home range recorded. Fish densities were significantly higher when fully protected areas were larger than the home range, while no change in density occurred when home ranges were larger than fully protected areas. These results display a direct link between the effectiveness of fully protected areas and species' home range, suggesting that fully protected areas of at least 3.6 km(2) may increase the density of local populations of these coastal marine species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Bats have an important role in the ecosystem, and therefore an effective detection of their prevalence can contribute to their conservation. At present, the most commonly methodology used in the study of bats is the analysis of echolocation calls. However, many other ultrasound signals can be simultaneously recorded, and this makes species location and identification a long and difficult task. This field of research could be greatly improved through the use of bioacoustics which provide a more accurate automated detection, identification and count of the wildlife of a particular area. We have analyzed the calls of two bat species-Pipistrellus pipistrellus and Pipistrellus pygmaeus-both of which are common types of bats frequently found in the Iberian Peninsula. These two cryptic species are difficult to identify by their morphological features, but are more easily identified by their echolocation calls. The real-life audio files have been obtained by an Echo Meter Touch Pro 1 bat detector. Time-expanded recordings of calls were first classified manually by means of their frequency, duration and interpulse interval. In this paper, we first detail the creation of a dataset with three classes, which are the two bat species but also the silent intervals. This dataset can be useful to work in mixed species environment. Afterwards, two automatic bat detection and identification machine learning approaches are described, in a laboratory environment, which represent the previous step to real-life in an urban scenario. The priority in that approaches design is the identification using short window analysis in order to detect each bat pulse. However, given that we are concerned with the risks of automatic identification, the main aim of the project is to accelerate the manual ID process for the specialists in the field. The dataset provided will help researchers develop automatic recognition systems for a more accurate identification of the bat species in a laboratory environment, and in a near future, in an urban environment, where those two bat species are common."	NonUS	Technology
"Recent examinations of hunting's impact on populations of long-lived species illustrate the rarity of strong compensatory responses. The extent to which sandhill crane populations exhibit compensatory, partially compensatory, or additive responses to harvest mortality is poorly known. To examine how sandhill crane harvests might impact resident, breeding crane populations, we simulated harvests of a well-studied population of individually marked birds at varying harvest intensities and degrees of selectivity within the social structure of territorial and non-territorial cranes. Simulations occurred in a demographically-explicit stochastic population model developed from a previous long-term (2000-2014) study of a sandhill crane population at carrying capacity in southcentral Wisconsin, USA. Non-selective harvest models that did not account for reproductive lags after territorial birds replaced lost mates produced additive responses and resulted in declining populations when > 7% of the population was harvested annually. When models of non-selective harvest incorporated reproductive lags, this threshold was reduced to > 5%. Harvesting at or above 5% harvest intensities continuously decreased population size over a 100-year period. In all models of selective harvests, when only nonterritorial birds were harvested, all populations returned to equilibrium. Population responses to harvest are sensitive to the number of territorial birds harvested, and this sensitivity increases when accounting for lags in reproduction stemming from mortality-induced mate replacement. If possible, limiting harvest of territorial birds from any one specific population would help maintain stability of populations when implementing a hunt. This study provides evidence for harvest impacts at a localized scale, and it represents an important first step toward better understanding the potential impacts of hunting on population responses at a regional scale, especially where resident, territorial birds might be harvested."	USA	Fisheries
"The Lesina lagoon (southern Adriatic Sea, Mediterranean) is a coastal lagoon located in a highly intensified farming and tourist area. A monthly sampling was carried out in 1998 in five stations, representative of different hydrological features, in order to analyse phytoplankton composition and its relation to environmental parameters. Our results showed high spatial variability of abiotic variables. Phytoplankton abundances and biomass trends showed marked seasonality, with annual peaks occurring in late winter-early spring and summer periods. Phytoplankton blooms were due to the diatom Thalassiosira pseudonana and the dinoflagellate Prorocentrum cordatum. Statistical analyses showed that salinity and nutrients were the main factors affecting phytoplankton abundance and biomass. Phytoplankton dynamics was associated both to seasonality and the hydrodynamic regime of the system. Moreover, chemical-physical data were analysed together with those collected in the same stations in 2007, to compare their dynamics under different hydrological regimes. The two periods corresponded to the closure and opening, respectively, of canals connecting the lagoon to the sea. In general, abiotic variables (salinity, dissolved oxygen, pH, nitrate, phosphate and silicate concentrations) were significantly affected by the hydrodynamic regime. These data could provide a useful basis to complement the knowledge gained through current monitoring within the framework of the European Directives, as well as to implement conservation and management strategies of these transitional waters."	NonUS	Ecology
"An increasing threat to U.S. waterways is the establishment and spread of invasive and injurious fishes. A species may be designated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) as federally injurious under the Lacey Act (18 U.S.C. 42) either if that species causes harm (injury) without establishing and spreading (not invasive), or if that species causes harm after establishment and spread (invasive). Species designated as injurious are prohibited from being imported, which is a highly effective way of preventing invasions by nonnative species. We developed a decision-support, risk-assessment system to aid USFWS's prioritization of species for injuriousness. Our system is based on USFWS's evaluation criteria of a species' potential injuriousness and consists of a semi-quantitative, rapid-assessment procedure called the Ecological Risk Screening Summary (ERSS) and a quantitative probability network model called the Freshwater Fish Injurious Species Risk Assessment Model (FISRAM). ERSS provides information on a species' history of invasiveness elsewhere in the world, and on its biology and ecology, potential or known effects of introduction, global and domestic distribution, and climate associations, and provides conclusions on potential risk of invasiveness. FISRAM calculates expected probability of injuriousness as a function of species potential establishment, spread, and harm, based on probable effects on native species and ecosystems, suitability of climate and habitat in introduced areas. ease of dispersal and transport, and harm to humans. FISRAM is used to assess risk probability when ERSS categorizes invasion risk as uncertain. We calibrated and updated the probability structure of FISRAM using a data set of 50 species with known invasiveness outcomes. We demonstrate the use of these two models for risk assessment and decision-support in identifying and documenting species for potential risk management actions, such as listing wildlife as injurious under the Lacey Act."	USA	Technology
"Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) savanna characterized by open-canopy, diverse herbaceous vegetation, and high amounts of bare soil once covered much of the southeastern United States Coastal Plain. The unique structural and vegetative conditions of this ecosystem support endemic reptiles and amphibians that have declined as longleaf pine forests have been lost or degraded. Private working pine (Pinus spp.) forests managed for timber production now occur throughout the southeastern United States and have replaced much of the historical longleaf pine savanna. The examination of herpetofaunal (reptile, amphibian) communities in private working loblolly pine (P. taeda) landscapes, particularly in the western Gulf Coastal Plain is lacking. Using repeated field surveys and hierarchical community occupancy models, we examined occupancy and species richness of herpetofauna across 81 sites spanning gradients of management practices, vegetative conditions, and soil composition in northwestern Louisiana, USA, 2017-2019. Young pine stands (<6 yr) exhibited structural characteristics most similar to mature longleaf pine reference sites (>30 yr), while mid-aged stands (13-26 yr) often featured closed canopy and dense midstory. Vegetation conditions varied widely depending on landscape characteristics and site-specific disturbance regimes. We documented 43 species of herpetofauna, including 9 open-pine-associated species. Occupancy of open-pine-associated herpetofauna was positively associated with open-canopy and understory conditions, and sandy soil area. Sites providing open-canopy conditions were often occupied by open-pine-associated species regardless of overstory type and disturbance method. Overall richness of herpetofauna was greatest at sites with moderate canopy cover outside of sandy soil regions. Working pine landscapes in the western Gulf Coastal Plain can support diverse herpetofaunal assemblages, including open-pine-associated species, when management practices maintain open-canopy conditions on sandy, upland soils. More broadly, our results provide insight into how forest management practices affect herpetofauna and may guide practices that can contribute to conservation value of working pine forests."	USA	Conservation
"Predator tourism is one strategy to improve tolerance for predators, and support biodiversity and ecosystem health. Torres del Paine National Park (TdP) - a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve in southern Chile - supports productive livestock industries and nascent puma tourism. We compared interviews conducted in the region prior to puma tourism, with results from interviews collected across 45 ranches post-puma tourism. We assessed rancher attitudes regarding pumas, puma-livestock conflict, puma tourism, and linked them with socio-ecological factors. Respondents who viewed pumas as a threat experienced higher livestock losses. Respondents who reported higher sheep losses were inclined to support the lethal removal of livestock-killing pumas, and to initiate a puma hunt, whereas respondents who supported puma tourism disagreed with hunting pumas. Using the Potential for Conflict Index, we found that participants exhibited the highest consensus on the benefit of puma tourism and the lowest consensus over lethal removal of pumas. Our results suggest predator tourism has increased tolerance for pumas but is creating new potential for conflict. Previous to puma tourism, ranchers were almost entirely negative about pumas and unanimously supported illegal puma hunting. Now, most believe that pumas are part of Patagonia's heritage. This divide was best explained by distance to TdP: ranches closer to TdP experienced greater losses to pumas but had neighbours that benefitted most from puma tourism. Therefore, we suggest that tourism revenues supplement community compensation insurance programs that reimburse rancher losses to pumas to mitigate the growing divide between those benefiting from pumas and those experiencing economic hardship."	USA	Conservation
"Habitat corridor construction is an important technique for re-establishing connections between fragmented habitats. Yet, the effectiveness of habitat corridors to increase gene flow among fragmented populations is not well studied. In 2008 and 2009. a prairie habitat corridor was created in the Green River watershed of south central Kentucky, USA to protect water quality and encourage movement of native wildlife as part of the US Environmental Protection Agency Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP). In 2008, prior to the establishment of the habitat corridor, we documented the population genetic structure of 6 butterfly species (Chlosyne nycteis, Cupido comyntas, Phoebis sennae, Phyciodes tharos, Pterourus glaucus, and Pterourus tivilus) with different habitat requirements and different expected responses to corridor construction using Randomly Amplified DNA Fingerprint (RAF) markers. STRUCTURE analysis of these markers subdivided each butterfly species into 2 to 8 subpopulations in the Green River watershed. By collecting data in the early stages of habitat restoration, we have established a baseline to compare with data obtained after the corridor has matured to determine the population genetic effects on previously isolated butterfly populations and to provide information about the conservation value of habitat corridors in general."	USA	Conservation
"Intensive trawling activities in Hong Kong waters have seriously depleted fishery resources and damaged marine benthic habitats over the last four decades. To minimize further destruction and rehabilitate fishery resources, the Hong Kong Government implemented a permanent territory-wide trawling closure on 31 December 2012. Such a trawl ban creates a unique opportunity to investigate recoveries in ecosystem structure and function following a major shift in disturbance regime by removing impacts from a major gear. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that dominant predatory mantis shrimps, including Harpiosquilla harpax, Miyakella nepa, Oratosquillina interrupta, and Oratosquilla oratoria would show signs of recovery following the trawl ban. Their population dynamics were investigated before and after the trawl ban. The results showed that their mean weight, mean carapace length and proportion of large-sized individuals increased significantly 3.5 years after the trawl ban, whilst their abundance, biomass and maximum length remained unchanged. This study suggests that the stomatopod assemblage in the human-dominated Hong Kong waters shows some initial signs of possible recovery following the trawl ban but also highlights the complexity of implementing fishery management and detecting changes resulted from management measures in a heavily urbanized seascape where many biotic and abiotic factors can influence their population dynamics."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Managers and conservation practitioners commonly deploy artificial habitats to restore lost natural habitats or supplement existing natural habitats. These decision makers face logistical and financial constraints in determining which type of structure (e.g., size, material) to deploy, as well as the added complication that ecological evaluations of structure performance are sparse. As a result, deployed artificial habitats often fail to meet habitat restoration or supplementation goals, especially in marine systems. Here, we evaluated the ecological performance of four types of marine artificial reefs (metal ships, three types of concrete modules) relative to each other and to neighboring natural habitat (rocky reefs). Through diver-conducted fish surveys on twenty-three reefs offshore of North Carolina (NC), USA, we found that different reef types hosted distinct fish communities. Concrete modules performed similarly to rocky reefs, supporting similar fish abundance, biomass, and community composition. In contrast, metal ships supported different fish communities than concrete modules and rocky reefs. Further analyses revealed that these patterns may relate to the 'footprint' and structural complexity of reef structures. These findings suggest that managers should strategically deploy particular types of artificial reefs depending on their objectives. For example, concrete modules should be deployed if the objective is to mimic rocky reefs, whereas deploying ships may create habitats that surpass natural reefs in fish abundance and biomass but with different communities. Moving forward, managers and conservation practitioners must rely on the most recent and location-specific structure evaluations when deciding which types of artificial habitats to deploy given their management objectives."	USA	Conservation
"Traditional conservation scientists approach biodiversity from a resource-management perspective, in which both wildlife and non-living natural resources are managed to balance the interests of competing human stakeholders. Here, I argue for viewing biological conservation as part of a larger competition of the powerful and their interests against humans and wildlife alike. Drawing on social dominance theory to apply lessons on intergroup conflict to ecological networks, I propose that those political power structures that marginalize human populations, denying voice and inclusion, also perform poorly regarding wildlife species. Accounting for nonhuman species as a collection of agentic beings seeking to satisfy their own survival interests and that of their respective social group, I argue for connecting the literatures on social justice and ecological justice through common challenges rooted in the social psychology of power."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"Better aligning agriculture and environmental policies is an important issue for Mediterranean areas. Minimizing conflicts between the two sectors requires better understanding farmers' concerns. Using survey data among a sample of livestock farmers in the French Mediterranean Alps, we examine the main constraints they are confronted with. While France has adopted environmental policies aimed at the conservation of natural habitats and wildlife, which have contributed to a rewilding of mountains, farmers' responses suggest that the growing presence of wolves is a major concern, in addition to institutional and market-related constraints. Given that grassland changes, notably agricultural land abandonment in Mediterranean areas, is considered as problematic for its consequences on agriculture, biodiversity and landscape management, we examine whether the constraints perceived by farmers are related to land abandonment. Applying a probit regression to our survey data we show that farmers' perception of the wolf's presence is positively associated with the level of abandonment alpine grasslands. It is the only perceived constraint significantly associated with land abandonment. Our result have implications for the design of land use policies to support the permanence of mountain farming and to help livestock breeders confront their particular constraints."	NonUS	Conservation
"Many of the processes that govern the viability of animal populations vary spatially, yet population viability analyses (PVAs) that account explicitly for spatial variation are rare. We develop a PVA model that incorporates autocorrelation into the analysis of local demographic information to produce spatially explicit estimates of demography and viability at relatively fine spatial scales across a large spatial extent. We use a hierarchical, spatial, autoregressive model for capture-recapture data from multiple locations to obtain spatially explicit estimates of adult survival (phi(ad)), juvenile survival (phi(juv)), and juvenile-to-adult transition rates (psi), and a spatial autoregressive model for recruitment data from multiple locations to obtain spatially explicit estimates of recruitment (R). We combine local estimates of demographic rates in stage-structured population models to estimate the rate of population change (lambda), then use estimates of lambda (and its uncertainty) to forecast changes in local abundance and produce spatially explicit estimates of viability (probability of extirpation, P-ex). We apply the model to demographic data for the Sonoran desert tortoise (Gopherus morafkai) collected across its geographic range in Arizona. There was modest spatial variation in lambda<^> (0.94-1.03), which reflected spatial variation in phi<^>ad (0.85-0.95), phi<^>juv (0.70-0.89), and psi<^> (0.07-0.13). Recruitment data were too sparse for spatially explicit estimates; therefore, we used a range-wide estimate (R<^> = 0.32 1-yr-old females per female per year). Spatial patterns in demographic rates were complex, but phi<^>ad, phi<^>juv, and lambda<^> tended to be lower and psi<^> higher in the northwestern portion of the range. Spatial patterns in P-ex varied with local abundance. For local abundances >500, P-ex was near zero (<0.05) across most of the range after 100 yr; as abundances decreased, however, P-ex approached one in the northwestern portion of the range and remained low elsewhere. When local abundances were <50, western and southern populations were vulnerable (P-ex > 0.25). This approach to PVA offers the potential to reveal spatial patterns in demography and viability that can inform conservation and management at multiple spatial scales, provide insight into scale-related investigations in population ecology, and improve basic ecological knowledge of landscape-level phenomena."	USA	Ecology
"The global climate is changing faster than previously anticipated. Although scientists expect cumulatively deleterious impacts to birds and other wildlife, effects on individual species are likely more complex. The California Department of Fish and Wildlife has monitored > 100 songbirds across 37,600 km(2) of Northern California conifer forests for close to two decades to facilitate informed, science-based conservation planning. The study area represents 42% of all conifer forests in the state. Autonomous sound recorders were used to survey birds at 1065 randomly distributed sites from 2002 to 2016. The richness of Neotropical migrants declined below 1515 m (90% CI: 1150-1950 m) elevation whereas it increased above this threshold after controlling for changes in tree cover due to forestry and wildfire. This finding suggests an overall upward shift in Neotropical migrant distributions in response to an annual 0.037 degrees C (90% CI: 0.029-0.045 degrees C) increase in mean daily May temperature during the timespan. Residents and altitudinal migrants may be less vulnerable to increasing temperatures, conversely, as evidence of elevational shifting was much weaker or non-existent for them. Yet for individual species, there were both declines and increases in occupancy. Rapid and mixed population trends, in combination with elevational range shifts, suggest that songbirds vary widely in their capacity to adapt to climate change and other stressors. Conservation of structurally-complex and fire resilient forests above similar to 1500 m elevation is paramount in helping to buffer songbirds against rising temperatures. The expansion of biodiversity monitoring across large taxonomic, spatial, and temporal extents is vital to effective conservation planning."	USA	ClimateChange
"Agricultural production in the United States relies on extensive land use that sometimes conflicts with federal policies to protect wildlife habitat. A prime example of this conflict is the Endangered Species Act (ESA), which can impose significant penalties on landowners and producers who destroy the habitat of listed species. While prior research has measured the effects of ESA regulations on land values and natural resources, no research has identified the consequences of listing a species on livestock production. In this study, we measure the effect of ESA listings on beef cattle production in the central United States. Results suggest that listing likely has a small positive effect on cattle stocks."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"Meiobenthos is a sediment-dwelling community with various taxonomic groups ranging in size from 63 to 500 mu m. As a matter and energy link between primary producers and macrofauna, they have other functions in the ecosystem. Since this group has been scarcely studied in Venezuela, it was proposed to analyze the spatial and temporal variations in the composition and abundance of subtidal meiobenthos in the country's central coast. Samplings were conducted monthly from June 2014 to March 2015. In each sampling campaign, 12 random stations were established, and three samples were taken at each using a cylindrical sampler of 5.0 cm internal diameter. Organisms were identified and counted using microscopes, and data was processed using hypothesis tests (ANOSIM) and multivariate analyzes (SIMPER, nMDS). Meiobenthos showed a richness of 164 morphotypes and 14 phyla, with a dominance of planktonic copepods and foraminifers, followed by cnidarians and mollusks. Out of the total species reported, 84 are strictly benthic. Regarding abundance, there was a greater representation of foraminifera, followed by nematodes and mollusks, with values higher than those reported for tropical areas. Spatially, no differences were found in the composition and abundance of this community. However, two maximums were found throughout the study period, one starting in June until reaching maximum densities between August and October and the second one in February."	NonUS	Ecology
"Plastic debris in the oceans is a major and growing problem in global environmental pollution. There are increasing concerns that plastic debris is a source of contaminant, either added during manufacturing or adsorbed from the environment. However, there is little information about the acute toxicity of leachates from plastic debris on marine organisms. In this study, we conducted experiments to evaluate the toxicity of leachates from two single-use polyethylene plastic bags (PB1 and PB2) with the embryo and larvae of the commercial clam Meretrix meretrix. Results showed that fertilization of the embryos was not affected by plastic leachates, but the developments of D-veliger larvae, including survival, deformity, and shell height, were significantly affected by plastic leachates from both PB1 and PB2 compared to the controls of filtered seawater. We speculate that compounds leaching from plastic bags are responsible for the observed toxicity. Therefore, leaching toxicity from plastic debris should be considered when assessing the risks of plastic pollution in the oceans."	NonUS	Ecology
"Background Several members of the bacterial Halomonadacea family are natural producers of polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA), which are promising materials for use as biodegradable bioplastics. Type-strain species of Cobetia are designated PHA positive, and recent studies have demonstrated relatively high PHA production for a few strains within this genus. Industrially relevant PHA producers may therefore be present among uncharacterized or less explored members. In this study, we characterized PHA production in two marine Cobetia strains. We further analyzed their genomes to elucidate pha genes and metabolic pathways which may facilitate future optimization of PHA production in these strains. Results Cobetia sp. MC34 and Cobetia marina DSM 4741(T) were mesophilic, halotolerant, and produced PHA from four pure substrates. Sodium acetate with- and without co-supplementation of sodium valerate resulted in high PHA production titers, with production of up to 2.5 g poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB)/L and 2.1 g poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV)/L in Cobetia sp. MC34, while C. marina DSM 4741(T) produced 2.4 g PHB/L and 3.7 g PHBV/L. Cobetia marina DSM 4741(T) also showed production of 2.5 g PHB/L from glycerol. The genome of Cobetia sp. MC34 was sequenced and phylogenetic analyses revealed closest relationship to Cobetia amphilecti. PHA biosynthesis genes were located at separate loci similar to the arrangement in other Halomonadacea. Further genome analyses revealed some differences in acetate- and propanoate metabolism genes between the two strains. Interestingly, only a single PHA polymerase gene (phaC(2)) was found in Cobetia sp. MC34, in contrast to two copies (phaC(1) and phaC(2)) in C. marina DSM 4741(T). In silico analyses based on phaC genes show that the PhaC(2) variant is conserved in Cobetia and contains an extended C-terminus with a high isoelectric point and putative DNA-binding domains. Conclusions Cobetia sp. MC34 and C. marina DSM 4741(T) are natural producers of PHB and PHBV from industrially relevant pure substrates including acetate. However, further scale up, optimization of growth conditions, or use of metabolic engineering is required to obtain industrially relevant PHA production titers. The putative role of the Cobetia PhaC(2) variant in DNA-binding and the potential implications remains to be addressed by in vitro- or in vivo methods."	NonUS	Technology
"A specific feature of the term transboundary is defined, which is usually perceived as an opportunity to overcome the borders separating the territory, and is used as opposed to the frontier objects adjacent to the border but not crossing it. Transboundary interstate territories are discussed, where only regulated activities may be carried out, such as nature conservation in solving the problem of preserving biotic and landscape diversity where a poor involvement of border areas in economic activity ensures an adequate degree of ecosystem preservation. A possibility of establishing transboundary specially protected natural areas arises in the most significant (in terms of natural diversity conservation) areas adjacent to the borders of neighboring States. The main condition for the effective functioning of transboundary specially protected natural areas implies signing bilateral agreements or agreements between a large number of countries with the aim of developing joint scientific and tourist programs as well as weakening of border control. Issues related to the theoretical and practical substantiation of the establishment of transboundary specially protected natural areas are considered. As of the beginning of 2019, there are five such areas established in accordance with interstate agreements: Altai, Dauria, Sources of the Amur, Lake Khanka and Ubsunur Depression. The most important planned transboundary specially protected natural areas of the Asian part of Russia are also highlighted. The relatively well investigated areas include Amur Tiger and Leopard, Delger-Muren, From Khubsugul to Baikal, Khentei-Chikoi Highland, Sailyugem, Sayan Junction, Selenga, Tumangan, Southern Kuriles, and Beringia."	NonUS	Conservation
"The genusPalaemoncomprises worldwide marine and freshwater shrimps and prawns, and some of them are ecologically or commercially important species.Palaemonis not currently a monophyletic group, so phylogenetics and systematics are constantly changing. Species crypticism has been pointed out in severalPalaemonspecies, being the clearest evidence in the European rockpool shrimpP.elegans. Here we sequenced and described seven EuropeanPalaemonmitochondrial genomes. The mitochondrial protein-coding genes were used, along with those of three otherPalaemonspecies, to perform mitogenome phylogenetic analyses to clarify the evolutionary relationships within the genus, and particularly to shed light on the cryptic species found withinP.elegans. The Messinian Salinity Crisis (5.3-5.9 Ma, late Miocene) was proposed to be the origin of this cryptic species and it was used as aged constraint for calibration analysis. We provide the largest and the first time-calibrated mitogenome phylogeny of the genusPalaemonand mitogenome substitution rate was estimated (1.59% per million years) in Decapoda for the first time. Our results highlighted the need for future systematics changes inPalaemonand crypticism inP.eleganswas confirmed. Mitochondrial genome andcox1(1.41%) substitution rate estimates matched those published elsewhere, arguing that the Messinian Salinity Crisis was a plausible event driving the split betweenP.elegansand its cryptic species. Molecular dating suggested that Pleistocene glaciations were likely involved in the differentiation between the Atlantic and Mediterranean populations ofP.elegans. On the contrary, the divergence between the Atlantic and Mediterranean populations of the common littoral shrimpP.serratuswas greater and dated to be much older (4.5-12.3 Ma, Plio-Miocene), so we considered that they could represent two separated species. Therefore, species crypticism in the genusPalaemonseems to be a common phenomenon."	NonUS	Genetics
"Advances in biologging techniques and the availability of high-resolution fisheries data have improved our ability to understand the interactions between seabirds and fisheries and to evaluate mortality risk due to bycatch. However, it remains unclear whether movement patterns and behaviour differ between birds foraging naturally or scavenging behind vessels and whether this could be diagnostic of fisheries interactions. We deployed novel loggers that record the GPS position of birds at sea and scan the surroundings to detect radar transmissions from vessels and immersion (activity) loggers on wandering albatrosses Diomedea exulans from South Georgia. We matched these data to remotely sensed fishing vessel positions and used a combination of hidden Markov and random forest models to investigate whether it was possible to detect a characteristic signature from the seabird tracking and activity data that would indicate fine-scale vessel overlap and interactions. Including immersion data in our hidden Markov models allowed two distinct foraging behaviours to be identified, both indicative of Area Restricted Search (ARS) but with or without landing behaviour (likely prey capture attempts) that would not be detectable with location data alone. Birds approached vessels during all behavioural states, and there was no clear pattern associated with this type of scavenging behaviour. The random forest models had very low sensitivity, partly because foraging events at vessels occurred very rarely, and did not contain any diagnostic movement or activity pattern that was distinct from natural behaviours away from vessels. Thus, we were unable to predict accurately whether foraging bouts occurred in the vicinity of a fishing vessel, or naturally, based on behaviour alone. Our method provides a coherent and generalizable framework to segment trips using auxiliary biologging (immersion) data and to refine the classification of foraging strategies of seabirds. These results nevertheless underline the value of using radar detectors that detect vessel proximity or remotely sensed vessel locations for a better understanding of seabird-fishery interactions."	NonUS	Technology
"Understanding both the distribution and habitat use of populations through the annual cycle is vital to understanding how vulnerable species are to environmental change. However, distributions and habitat use can vary among individuals and populations, particularly in generalist species, with variation depending on external environmental factors, such as resource availability. Comprehensive information across multiple populations is important to guide spatial planning of protected areas and is increasingly available for breeding individuals, but it is still lacking for many species, particularly seabirds, during the non-breeding season, especially those with declining populations. We investigated within-species variation in migratory strategies, non-breeding habitat selection and habitat and spatial specialisation in a declining, opportunistic, generalist seabird, the European herring gull Larus argentatus, from multiple breeding colonies across northwest England and southwest Scotland using global positioning system (GPS) tracking during the non-breeding season of 2014/15. Although several individuals stayed within the area of the breeding colony, the majority of individuals migrated in a southerly direction and spent half of the annual cycle (on average 53%) away from the breeding area and kept moving through the non-breeding period. During non-breeding, herring gulls selected mainly marine intertidal, but also a range of anthropogenic terrestrial habitats. However, habitat selection differed between geographical regions, within a geographical region and among individuals. There was a generalist use of non-breeding habitats at the population level, but some habitat specialisation at the individual level that was repeatable through the non-breeding period despite individuals showing low spatial specialisation. The results highlight the importance of intertidal habitat and a mix of alternative foraging habitats in the wintering areas of herring gulls. The results also highlight that habitat selection in an opportunistic generalist can vary even between nearby regions and that appropriate conservation management plans may need to be tailored to regional differences in specific non-breeding areas."	NonUS	Ecology
"Contrasts in spawning time between in situ and ex situ colonies of the pillar coral Dendrogyra cylindrus were assessed by comparing 8 years of in situ spawning observations with 3 years of observations on ex situ corals held in outdoor flow-through tanks. In situ colonies exhibited a 3-day spawning window, with peak spawning occurring three nights after the full moon and 90 (males) - 96 (females) min after sunset. The ex situ spawning window extended across 7 days, with a peak on nights 4-5 after the full moon; females continued to spawn through night 8. Ex situ spawning occurred similar to 50 min later than in situ spawning, and the spawning window for ex situ females was significantly greater than for in situ colonies. Fragments held ex situ for as few as 10 days experienced delayed spawning times, but corals held for greater than one lunar year exhibited significantly later spawning than those held less than one lunar year. Early and late full moons resulted in earlier male spawn time and asynchronous gamete release between males and females. Comparing spawn times throughout the Caribbean identified distance from lighted shorelines as a strong correlate with spawn time in minutes after sunset; proximity to artificial light resulted in delayed spawn times. We propose that artificial lights are red-shifting the twilight spectrum and affecting corals' perception of lighting cues that trigger spawning. Coral colonies held at outdoor ex situ facilities, which are subject to even higher levels of artificial light, exhibit even further asynchrony in spawning time as well as spawning night. The effects of widespread and increasing light pollution on spawning synchrony may represent a potential stressor that could inhibit natural reef recovery."	USA	HumanWildlife
"The ongoing decline of large marine vertebrates must be urgently mitigated, particularly under increasing levels of climate change and other anthropogenic pressures. However, characterizing the connectivity among populations remains one of the greatest challenges for the effective conservation of an increasing number of endangered species. Achieving conservation targets requires an understanding of which seascape features influence dispersal and subsequent genetic structure. This is particularly challenging for adult-disperser species, and when distribution-wide sampling is difficult. Here, we developed a two-step modelling framework to investigate how seascape features drive the genetic connectivity of marine species without larval dispersal, to better guide the design of marine protected area networks and corridors. We applied this framework to the endangered grey reef shark, Carcharhinus amblyrhynchos, a reef-associated shark distributed across the tropical Indo-Pacific. In the first step, we developed a seascape genomic approach based on isolation-by-resistance models involving circuit theory applied to 515 shark samples, genotyped for 4991 nuclear single-nucleotide polymorphisms. We show that deep oceanic areas act as strong barriers to dispersal, while proximity to habitat facilitates dispersal. In the second step, we predicted the resulting genetic differentiation across the entire distribution range of the species, providing both local and global-scale conservation units for future management guidance. We found that grey reef shark populations are more fragmented than expected for such a mobile species, raising concerns about the resilience of isolated populations under high anthropogenic pressures. We recommend the use of this framework to identify barriers to gene flow and to help in the delineation of conservation units at different scales, together with its integration across multiple species when considering marine spatial planning."	NonUS	Conservation
"Europe has set ambitious green energy targets, to which offshore renewable developments (ORDs) will make a significant contribution. Governments are legally required to deliver ORDs sustainably; however, they may have detrimental impacts on wildlife, especially those already experiencing declines due to climate change. Population viability analysis (PVA) is the standard method for forecasting population change in ORD assessments, but PVAs do not currently account for climate effects. We quantified climate effects on seabird breeding success for 8 UK species breeding in the North Sea. We assessed the potential for seabirds to mitigate climate-driven changes in breeding success by accessing wider resources through increased foraging ranges around colonies. We demonstrate strong links between breeding success and climate in 5 species. In 4 of these species, future climate projections indicated large declines in breeding success relative to current rates. Only one species was predicted to increase breeding success under future climate. In all 5 species, there was limited opportunity for species to increase breeding success by expanding foraging ranges to access more suitable future climatic conditions. Climate change will have significant ramifications for future breeding success of seabirds breeding in the North Sea, an area undergoing extensive and rapid offshore renewable energy development. We recommend 3 methods for including climate-driven changes to seabird breeding success within ORD assessments: development of predictive climate-driven habitat use models to estimate ORD-wildlife interactions; delivery of a new ORD assessment framework that includes dynamic predictions of climate-driven habitat use and demography of wildlife populations; and consideration of climate-driven changes in the implementation of compensatory measures."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"The dynamics determining the establishment and maintenance of epibiotic relationships are fundamental to understand the role of biological interactions in the functioning of marine coastal ecosystems. Epibiosis of barnacles on mussels is a common feature of many intertidal rocky shores. There are several possible explanations for this relationship, but it is unclear whether the association is commensal, antagonistic, or mutualistic. We investigated the diets of barnacles and mussels in an epibiotic relationship (epibiont barnacle and basibiont mussel), and compared them to the diets of conspecifics living on the same rocky shore but independently (free barnacle and free mussel), using stable isotope (SI) and fatty acid (FA) techniques. The SI results indicated that the diet of mussels did not change as a function of epibiosis, while free barnacles were characterized by higher delta N-15 values than epibiotic conspecifics, indicating that they were feeding on more recycled food sources. This result was, however, supported by data from only one site. Results from FA were partially consistent with those of SI analysis, indicating that mussel FA profiles did not change between basibiont and free mussels, but that epibiotic barnacles were characterized by a lower amount of polyunsaturated FA than free barnacles. This suggests that the diet of epibiotic barnacles is of lower quality. This could be due to competition for food with mussels, driven by the different mechanisms of food assimilation between epibiotic barnacle and basibiont mussel; or by the different sizes of particles ingested by the two species under epibiosis vs free-living conditions. The discrepancy between the FA and SI results observed could reflect the different integration time of the analytical techniques, with FA reflecting shorter term variability than SI. We conclude that epibiosis represents an unfavourable relationship for barnacles due to the lower quality of food available when colonizing mussel shells, whereas mussels neither benefit nor were harmed by this association. Thus, this relationship is amensalistic: negative for barnacles but neutral for mussels."	NonUS	Ecology
"The violaxanthin (V)-antheraxanthin (A)-zeaxanthin (Z) (VAZ) cycle was deemed a non-second-scale process of photoprotection in higher plants and microalgae, but the validity of this view has not been confirmed. To test this view, we explored responses of the VAZ cycle and the relationship between the VAZ cycle and non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) under highlight at second and minute scales in Heterosigma akashiwo and Platymonas sp. Both A and Z were generated in H. akashiwo during 15 s of light exposure, whereas only A rapidly accumulated within 15 s of exposure in Platymonas sp. The above results, together with a time-dependent sigmoidal relationship between the VAZ cycle (de-epoxidation state, A/Chl a, and Z/Chl a) and NPQ, proved that the VAZ cycle was a second-scale process related to NPQ. In addition, we found that not all NPQ was dependent on the VAZ cycle and suggested that NPQ model should be carefully modified due to the species-specific proportions of de-epoxidation-dependent NPQ."	NonUS	Ecology
"The COVID-19 pandemic has abruptly halted the Anthropocene's ever-expanding reign for the time being. The resulting global human confinement, dubbed as the Anthropause, has created an unprecedented opportunity for us to evaluate the environmental consequences of large-scale changes in anthropogenic activities. Based on a methodical and in-depth review of related literature, this study critically evaluates the positive and negative externalities of COVID-19 induced lockdown on environmental components including air, water, noise, waste, forest, wildlife, and biodiversity. Among adverse impacts of the lockdown, increased amount of healthcare waste (300-400%), increased level of atmospheric ozone (30-300%), elevated levels of illicit felling in forests and wildlife poaching were prominent. Compared to the negative impacts, significant positive changes in various quality parameters related to key environmental components were evident. Positive impacts on air quality, water quality, noise level, waste generation, and wildlife were apparent in varying degrees as evaluated in this study. By presenting a critical overview of the recommendations given in the major literature in light of these documented impacts, this paper alludes to potential policy reforms as a guideline for future sustainable environmental management planning. Some of the key recommendations are e.g., enhance remote working facilities, cleaner design, use of internet of things, automation, systematic lockdown, and inclusion of hazardous waste management in di-saster planning. The summarized lessons of this review, pertinent to the dynamic relationship between anthro-pogenic activities and environmental degradation, amply bring home the need for policy reforms and prioritization of Sustainable Development Goals in the context of the planetary boundaries to the environmental sustainability for a new post-pandemic world. (c) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Atlantic tarpon Megalops atlanticus are important mesopredators in the western Atlantic Ocean, and the focus of a popular recreational fishery that targets them throughout their annual migration in the Gulf of Mexico and southeastern USA. Using 4 years of acoustic telemetry data, we quantified the seasonal variation in phenology of arrival and departure, and occupancy for subadult and adult M. atlanticus in the Florida Keys, USA. While detection profiles of subadult M. atlanticus (n = 11) varied in residency and dispersal patterns, all adult M. atlanticus detection profiles (n = 47) exhibited seasonal residency. The median spring-summer residence period of adult M. atlanticus ranged from 40 to 60 d, with a mean of 51 d across years. At the individual level, repeatability in the timing of arrival and duration were high across years, suggesting that photoperiod may be an important migratory cue. Further, the repeatability in the timing of arrival to the Florida Keys for individuals was not associated with sea surface temperature (SST). At the population level, residency corresponded with the spawning season, with the majority of adult M. atlanticus arriving in April once SST reached 26 degrees C, and then departing in June (27-29 degrees C). Highest occupancy probabilities for adult M atlanticus occurred in May (26-28 degrees C) and lowest between August and October. Large aggregations of M. atlanticus that occur during the spawning season (April-June) are potentially vulnerable to the effects of habitat degradation and angling-related mortality and behavioral changes. These data on M. atlanticus phenology provide insights for implementing science-based strategic management plans."	USA	Fisheries
"Pelagic seabirds are tied to their breeding colonies throughout their long-lasting breeding season, but at the same time, they have to feed in a highly dynamic marine environment where prey abundance and availability rapidly change across space and seasons. Here, we describe the foraging movements of yelkouan shearwater Puffinus yelkouan, a seabird endemic to the Mediterranean Sea that spends its entire life cycle within this enclosed basin and whose future conservation is intimately linked to human-driven and climatic changes affecting the sea. The aim was to understand the main factors underlying the choice of foraging locations during the reproductive phases. A total of 34 foraging trips were obtained from 21 breeding adults tagged and tracked on Tavolara Archipelago (N Sardinia, Italy). This is the largest and most important breeding area for the species, accounting for more than 50% of the world population. The relationships between foraging movements during two different breeding stages and the seasonal changes of primary productivity at sea were modeled. Movements appeared to be addressed toward inshore (<20 km), highly productive, and relatively shallow (<200 m) foraging areas, often in front of river mouths and at great distances from the colony. During incubation, the Bonifacio Strait and other coastal areas close to North and West Sardinia were the most preferred locations (up to 247 km from the colony). During the chick-rearing phase, some individuals reached areas placed at greater distances from the colony (up to 579 km), aiming at food-rich hotspots placed as far north as the Gulf of Lion (France). The need for such long distance and long-lasting foraging trips is hypothesized to be related to unfavorable conditions on the less productive (and already depleted) Sardinian waters."	NonUS	Ecology
"A major climate shift took place about 40Myr ago-the Middle Eocene Climatic Optimum or MECO-triggered by a significant rise of atmospheric CO2 concentrations. The biotic response to this MECO is well documented in the marine realm, but poorly explored in adjacent landmasses. Here, we quantify the response of the floras from America's southernmost latitudes based on the analysis of terrestrially derived spores and pollen grains from the mid-late Eocene (similar to 46-34Myr) of southern Patagonia. Robust nonparametric estimators indicate that floras in southern Patagonia were in average similar to 40% more diverse during the MECO than pre-MECO and post-MECO intervals. The high atmospheric CO2 and increasing temperatures may have favored the combination of neotropical migrants with Gondwanan species, explaining in part the high diversity that we observed during the MECO. Our reconstructed biota reflects a greenhouse world and offers a climatic and ecological deep time scenario of an ice-free sub-Antarctic realm."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Large carnivores are key drivers of ecosystem structure and function, yet their populations are declining worldwide. African lion (Panthera leo) populations have decreased significantly in recent decades with an estimated 23 000 lions left in Africa. Successful conservation efforts rely on a sound understanding of how animals utilize their surrounding habitat. We used movement data from GPS collars to investigate patterns and drivers of seasonal space use by free-roaming lions in the Greater Mapungubwe Transfrontier Conservation Area (GM-TFCA). We developed individual and population-level resource utilization functions (RUF) from 2008 to 2015. RUFs relate non-uniform space use within a home range to landscape metrics in a multiple regression framework. We identified six landscape features hypothesized a priori to be good predictors of lion space use: land use, land cover, elevation, terrain ruggedness, distance to human settlements and rivers. Only elevation during the dry season was a significant factor detected for lion space use ((beta) over cap +/- S.E.) (-0.278 +/- 0.107. CI = -0.4881, -0.0676). Across seasons, lions varied in their avoidance of human settlements, but 12 of 18 (67%) individuals selected areas within their home ranges that were farther from human settlements. Lions moved randomly across the landscape independent of vegetation type regardless of season. In season-specific analyses, some lions avoided human settlements (dry season: 45%, [n = 10] utilized areas farther from settlements; wet season: 50% [n = 9]). The lack of avoidance of settlements by some lions in our study also confirms that individual variation among lions can lead to human-wildlife conflicts. Perhaps the most critical observation from our study is that individual lions acted very differently as they used the landscape, which suggests the need for management plans to be landscape and case-specific."	NonUS	Ecology
"Context. Pseudogymnoascus destructans is the fungus responsible for white-nose syndrome (WNS), which has killed millions of hibernating bats in North America, but also occurs in bats in Europe and China without causing large-scale population effects. This is likely to be due to differences in species susceptibility and behaviour, and environmental factors, such as temperature and humidity. Pseudogymnoascus destructans is currently believed to be absent from Australia. Aims. To ascertain the level of risk that white-nose syndrome poses for Australian bats. Methods. This risk analysis examines the likelihood that P. destructans enters Australia, the likelihood of the fungus coming in contact with native bats on successful entry, and the potential consequences should this occur. Key results. This risk assessment concluded that it is very likely to almost certain that P. destructans will enter Australia, and it is likely that bats will be exposed to the fungus over the next 10 years. Eight cave-dwelling bat species from southern Australia are the ones most likely to be affected. Conclusions. The risk was assessed as medium for the critically endangered southern bent-winged bat (Miniopterus orianae bassanii), because any increase inmortality could affect its long-termsurvival. The risk to other species was deemed to range from low to very low, owing to their wider distribution, which extends beyond the P. destructans risk zone. Implications. Although Australia's milder climate may preclude the large mortality events seen in North America, the fungus could still significantly affect Australian bat populations, particularly bent-winged bats. Active surveillance is required to confirm Australia's continuing WNS-free status, and to detect the presence of P. destructans should it enter the country. Although White-nose Syndrome Response Guidelines have been developed by Wildlife Health Australia to assist response agencies in the event of an incursion of WNS into bats in Australia, these guidelines would be strengthened by further research to characterise Australian cave temperatures and hibernating bat biology, such as length of torpor bouts and movement over winter. Risk-mitigation strategies should focus on education programs that target cavers, show-cave managers and tourists, particularly those who have visited regions where WNS is known to occur."	NonUS	Ecology
"Cold seep emissions of low temperature fluid from the marine sediment basins are mainly comprised of methane and other hydrocarbons. A series of biogeochemical processes related to methane lead to the formation of authigenic carbonate minerals. In this study, a self-built experimental device was used to study the formation process of carbonate minerals under cold seep conditions. The concentrations of pore water chemicals, HCO3- and Ca2+ at different heights of the reactor under flow conditions can be observed. According to the experimental results, the formation process of carbonate minerals under cold seep conditions was estimated, that 1 m carbonate growth needs 12,000 and 7000 years, respectively, under fast (5 mLmin(-1)) and slow emission (1 mLmin(-1)) conditions. Furthermore, TOUGHREACT was used to simulate the diagenesis process. A 1D unsteady react-transport model was developed, and the experimental data was used to constrain the simulation. The results of simulation show that the carbonates need 17,000 and 9700 years to grow 1 m under the condition of fast and slow flow scenarios, respectively. The results of this work will contribute to the study of foundation on the formation of authigenic minerals in cold seep areas, and for the physical properties of sedimentary media as well."	NonUS	Ecology
"Leptospirosis is a globally distributed zoonotic disease caused by pathogenic bacteria of the genus Leptospira. This zoonotic disease affects humans, domestic animals and wild animals. Colombia is considered an endemic country for leptospirosis; Antioquia is the second department in Colombia, with the highest number of reported leptospirosis cases. Currently, many studies report bats as reservoirs of Leptospira spp. but the prevalence in these mammals is unknown. The goal of this study was to better understand the role of bats as reservoir hosts of Leptospira species and to evaluate the genetic diversity of circulating Leptospira species in Antioquia-Colombia. We captured 206 bats in the municipalities of Chigorodo (43 bats), Carepa (43 bats), Apartado (39 bats), Turbo (40 bats), and Necocli (41 bats) in the Uraba region (Antioquia-Colombia). Twenty bats tested positive for Leptospira spp. infection (20/206-9.70%) and the species of infected bats were Carollia perspicillata, Dermanura rava, Glossophaga soricina, Molossus molossus, Artibeus planirostris, and Uroderma convexum. These species have different feeding strategies such as frugivorous, insectivores, and nectarivores. The infecting Leptospira species identified were Leptospira borgpetersenii (3/20-15%), Leptospira alexanderi (2/20-10%), Leptospira noguchii (6/20-30%), Leptospira interrogans (3/20-15%), and Leptospira kirschneri (6/20-30%). Our results showed the importance of bats in the epidemiology, ecology, and evolution of Leptospira in this host-pathogen association. This is the first step in deciphering the role played by bats in the epidemiology of human leptospirosis in the endemic region of Uraba (Antioquia-Colombia)."	USA	Ecology
"In recent decades, coral reefs worldwide have been impacted annually by climate change and anthropogenic impacts. Marine parks are utilized to protect coral reef ecosystems and to ensure it is in sustainable use. In the present study, a 15-year change in coverage and composition of a hard coral community at Dongsha Atoll Marine National Park (DAMNP) was examined from 2005 to 2019. The reef has experienced several disturbances, including 11 typhoons and six coral bleaching events. A 34.39% decline in coral coverage had been recorded over the past 15 years in response to multiple and recurrent natural disturbances. The coral communities and functional ecology of the Dongsha Atoll changed during this period. The average dissimilarities in coral communities ranged from 55.38 to 59.02%. The dramatic decrease in the abundance of branching corals in addition to a slight increase in massive and encrusting corals suggest the habitat has simplified. The degraded coral reef communities represent a low resilience ecosystem, even though the DAMNP has been established. Without effective management, the coral reef ecosystem of the Dongsha Atoll may not persist due to repeated impacts from recurrent disturbances."	NonUS	Conservation
"We report for the first time the in situ dynamics of a vampyrellid in a marine system. A high sampling frequency (twice-weekly) was applied in a tropical eutrophic lagoon (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) for 5 years (2012-2016). The vampyrellid Hyalodiscus sp. specifically fed on the diatom Chaetoceros minimus during a short time window (similar to 3 months), although the prey was intermittently detected as the dominant phytoplanktonic species over a longer period (similar to 1 year). A classic Lotka-Volterra predator-prey dynamic was observed between the two partners, with a significant modification of the short-term oscillations of the prey. Specific abiotic preferences (i.e., relatively low temperature, intermediate salinity, and stratified conditions) associated with prey availability seemed to define this narrow temporal window of occurrence. Our results suggest that vampyrellids can be ecologically relevant in marine pelagic systems, with their impact on planktonic dynamics strongly depending on complex interactions between both biotic and abiotic factors."	USA	Ecology
"Marinomonas primoryensisKMM 3633(T), extreme living marine bacterium was isolated from a sample of coastal sea ice in the Amursky Bay near Vladivostok, Russia. The goal of our investigation is to study outer membrane channels determining cell permeability. Porin fromM. primoryensisKMM 3633(T)(MpOmp) has been isolated and characterized. Amino acid analysis and whole genome sequencing were the sources of amino acid data of porin, identified as Porin_4 according to the conservative domain searching. The amino acid composition of MpOmp distinguished by high content of acidic amino acids and low content of sulfur-containing amino acids, but there are no tryptophan residues in its molecule. The native MpOmp existed as a trimer. The reconstitution of MpOmp into black lipid membranes demonstrated its ability to form ion channels whose conductivity depends on the electrolyte concentration. The spatial structure of MpOmp had features typical for the classical gram-negative porins. However, the oligomeric structure of isolated MpOmp was distinguished by very low stability: heat-modified monomer was already observed at 30 degrees C. The data obtained suggest the stabilizing role of lipids in the natural membrane of marine bacteria in the formation of the oligomeric structure of porin."	NonUS	Genetics
"A number of European Innovation Partnerships (EIPs) were funded by the Department of Agriculture Food and the Marine through the 2013-2020 Rural Development Programme (RDP). Their objectives relate to restoring, preserving and enhancing ecosystems. Three of the EIPs-Caomlinn. Arann, the Hen Harrier Project and the Pearl Mussel Project-have varying targets and scale but they all pay for the delivery of ecosystem services whilst also supporting vibrant, rural farming communities. This is achieved by using a results-based payments approach where farmers are rewarded for the quality of habitat that they maintain on their farms in addition to the food products that they produce. The EIPs allow for an adaptive approach, which means programmes can be tailored to meet the specific needs and challenges of a particular biogeographical area. In this way, vital ecosystem services such as biodiversity, conservation of nationally rare species and habitats, carbon sequestration and storage, improved water quality, agricultural biodiversity, flood resilience and fire resilience can be delivered, protected and conserved while farmers are rewarded for doing so. These three EIPs provide a model by which this wide range of ecosystem services can be delivered through a results-based agri-environment (AE) payments approach, using habitat quality as a result indicator or surrogate for these services to which payment levels are linked."	NonUS	Conservation
"A marine bioinvasions Rapid Assessment Survey in August 2019, focused on marina floating pontoons in Rhode Island, Connecticut and New York recorded 21 non-indigenous, 22 cryptogenic and 2 range-expanding species. Five non-indigenous species (NIS) were found at more than 70% of the 10 sampled sites: three ascidians, Botryllus schlosseri (Pallas, 1766) (a probable mixture of introduced and native populations), Botrylloides violaceus Oka, 1927, and Styela clava Herdman, 1881; a crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus (de Haan, 1835), and a sea anemone, Diadumene lineata (Verrill, 1869). The sea anemone Aiptasiogeton eruptaurantia (Field, 1949), native to the southern United States, is newly reported from New York. The southern U.S. barnacle Amphibalanus subalbidus (Henry, 1973) was detected for the first time in Connecticut in Long Island Sound. It had been six years since the last rapid assessment survey of marinas in Rhode Island and 16 years for marinas in Connecticut and New York. During this six to 16 year hiatus, we found northern range expansions, expansion of recent invaders and generally consistent presence of previous NIS at high levels of occurrence."	USA	Ecology
"Developing techniques to quantify the spread and severity of diseases afflicting wildlife populations is important for disease ecology, animal ecology, and conservation. Giraffes (Giraffa camelopardalis) are in the midst of a dramatic decline, but it is not known whether disease is playing an important role in the broad-scale population reductions. A skin disorder referred to as giraffe skin disease (GSD) was recorded in 1995 in one giraffe population in Uganda. Since then, GSD has been detected in 13 populations in seven African countries, but good descriptions of the severity of this disease are not available. We photogrammetrically analyzed camera trap images from both Ruaha and Serengeti National parks in Tanzania to quantify GSD severity. Giraffe skin disease afflicts the limbs of giraffes in Tanzania, and we quantified severity by measuring the vertical length of the GSD lesion in relation to the total leg length. Applying the Jenks natural breaks algorithm to the lesion proportions that we derived, we classified individual giraffes into disease categories (none, mild, moderate, and severe). Scaling up to the population level, we predicted the proportion of the Ruaha and Serengeti giraffe populations with mild, moderate, and severe GSD. This study serves to demonstrate that camera traps presented an informative platform for examinations of skin disease ecology."	USA	Ecology
"The number of marine protected areas (MPAs) has increased dramatically in the last decade and poses a major logistic challenge for conservation practitioners in terms of spatial extent and the multiplicity of habitats and biotopes that now require assessment. Photographic assessment by autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) enables the consistent description of multiple habitats, in our case including mosaics of rock and sediment. As a case study, we used this method to survey the Greater Haig Fras marine conservation zone (Celtic Sea, northeast Atlantic). We distinguished 7 biotopes, detected statistically significant variations in standing stocks, species density, species diversity, and faunal composition, and identified significant indicator species for each habitat. Our results demonstrate that AUV-based photography can produce robust data for ecological research and practical marine conservation. Standardizing to a minimum number of individuals per sampling unit, rather than to a fixed seafloor area, may be a valuable means of defining an ecologically appropriate sampling unit. Although composite sampling represents a change in standard practice, other users should consider the potential benefits of this approach in conservation studies. It is broadly applicable in the marine environment and has been successfully implemented in deep-sea conservation and environmental impact studies. Without a cost-effective method, applicable across habitats, it will be difficult to further a coherent classification of biotopes or to routinely assess their conservation status in the rapidly expanding global extent of MPAs."	NonUS	Technology
"Blue growth emphasizes the sustainable use of marine resources for economic process whereas conserving the health of marine ecosystems. Motivated by this, we focus on the marine reserve design problem under multiple uncertainties, incorporating conservation, economy, reserve area and reserve shape compactness. We develop a novel globalized robust preemptive goal programming model to investigate the problem, where inner-outer uncertainty sets are defined to model the uncertain conservation value and opportunity cost. We thereby derive the tractable globalized robust counterpart of the proposed model and perform the model analysis on the globalized sensitivity parameters. Our proposed optimization framework can be demonstrated for the marine reserve design of West Coast National Marine Park of Qingdao in China. The computational experiments justify several important insights: (i) the resulting reserve area design is more robust than the delimitation of 2014 on the West Coast New Area; (ii) with the change of parameters related to uncertainty sets and global sensitivity, the conservation value can always be realized while the opportunity cost is sensitive; (iii) the comparison results with classic robust optimization method show that the proposed method can reduce the conservatism of decisions and enable planners to formulate more effective policy."	NonUS	Conservation
"Emerging infectious diseases are spreading at unprecedented rates and affecting wildlife worldwide, with particularly strong effects on islands. Since the introduction of avian malaria to Hawaii a century ago, the disease has contributed to the decline and extinction of several endemic Hawaiian honeycreeper species. At low elevation, where avian malaria is prevalent, Hawaii Amakihi Chlorodrepanis virens honeycreeper populations have experienced strong selection by the disease and have evolved increased malaria resilience, the ability to recover from infection. The goals of this study were to describe malaria infection rates across Hawaii Island, to examine the role of innate immunity in malaria resilience, and to determine the effects of resilience and chronic infection on Amakihi health. We measured malaria infection and metrics of innate immunity and health in low elevation Amakihi populations, which are more resilient to malaria, and high elevation populations, which have experienced weak malaria selection and are less resilient to malaria. Avian malaria infection was higher at low than high elevation. Measures of innate immunity were higher in low than high elevation Amakihi, but also depended on whether the birds were from the leeward side of the island (low rainfall) or windward side of the island (high rainfall) and whether they were free-living or captive. Regarding measures of health, body condition was better in malaria-infected than uninfected Amakihi, while hematocrit did not vary by malaria infection but was higher in high than low elevation birds. These are among the first results to describe variation in immunity and health according to avian malaria selection and infection in Hawaiian honeycreepers. Understanding the impacts of introduced diseases on island species, which are particularly susceptible to novel pathogens, will provide critical insight into how introduced disease may affect endangered species."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Sponges are among the earliest lineages of metazoans, with first fossil records dated back to 890 million years ago. All sponge species present associations with microorganisms to some extension, which influence sponges survival and adaptation. Sponge species can be divided into two categories, Low Microbial Abundance and High Microbial Abundance, depending on the abundance of the microbial community that they host. Monanchora arbuscula (a Low Microbial Abundance sponge species) and Xestospongia mum (a High Microbial Abundance sponge species) are sponges with widespread distribution in the Tropical Western Atlantic. Despite previous studies on the major features of these species, little is known whether M. arcuscula and X. mum prokaryotic communities are stable across vast geographic regions. We obtained a total of similar to 9.26 million 165 rRNA gene Illumina sequences for M. arbuscula samples collected at seven locations and for X. mum samples collected at three locations, corresponding to five ecoregions of the Caribbean and the Southwestern Atlantic (N = 105, 39 from M. arcusada and 66 from X. mum). These samples reflected different ecological strategies for prokaryotic communities assembly, since the core prokaryotic communities of M. arbuscula am more heterotrophic and shared with different sources (corals, sponges, seawater, sediments), while X. mum has more significant photosynthetic prokaryotic communities, mainly outsourced from other sponges. Results of M. arbuscula and X. mina prokaryotic communities analysis demonstrate that both sponge species have core prokaryotic communities stable across a vast geographic area (> 8000 km), and the world's mast notable coastal marine biogeographic filter, the Amazon River Mouth, in spite of the significant differences found among transient prokaryotic communities of both sponge species."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding how seabirds use the marine environment is key for marine spatial planning, and maps of their marine distributions derived from transect-based surveys and from tracking of individual bird's movements are increasingly available for the same geographic areas. Although the value of integrating these different datasets is well recognised, few studies have undertaken quantitative comparisons of the resulting distributions. Here we take advantage of four existing distribution maps and conduct a quantitative comparison for four seabird species (black-legged kittiwake Rissa tridactyla; European shag Phalacrocorax aristotelis; common guillemot Uria aalge; and razorbill Alca torda). We quantify the amount of overlap and agreement in the location of high use areas identified from either tracking or transect samples and use Bhattacharyya's Affinity to quantify levels of similarity in the general distribution patterns. Despite multiple differences in the properties of the datasets, there was a far greater degree of overlap than would be expected by chance, except when adopting the most constrained definition of high use. Distance to the nearest conspecific colony appeared to be an important driver of the degree of similarity. Agreed areas of highest use tended to occur close to colonies and, with increasing distance from colonies, similarity between datasets declined and/or there was similarity in respect of their being relatively low usage. Interpreting reasons for agreement between data sources in some areas and not others was limited by an inability to control for the multiple potential sources of differences from both the sampling and modelling processes of the underlying datasets. Nevertheless, our quantitative comparative approach provides a valuable tool to quantify the degree to which an area's importance is corroborated across multiple datasets, and therefore confidence that an important area has been correctly identified. This can help prioritise where the implementation of conservation measures should be targeted and identify where greatest scrutiny is required of the potential adverse environmental effects of any planned anthropogenic activities."	NonUS	Ecology
"The illegal wildlife trade is considered one of the major threats to global biodiversity. Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) have been highly valued by various cultures for use in religious and spiritual contexts, as a draft animal, and more recently, as a tourist attraction. Thus, the demand for captive elephants is high. Wild Asian elephants are taken from the wild, often illegally, to maintain these captive populations due to the unviability of captive breeding programs. For the first time, we documented the extent to which wild elephants are being illegally captured and traded in Sri Lanka between January 2008 and December 2018. We collected data from case records maintained by the Sri Lanka court system where the suspects of illegal elephant trade were prosecuted in addition to information gathered by archives and interviews with various stakeholders. We documented 55 cases where elephants were illegally traded. This is probably an underestimate due to the mortality rate of elephants during capture operations, and challenges in collecting data on this highly organized illicit trade. Nearly equal numbers of male and female elephants were traded and more than 50% of them were juveniles, aged <= 5 years. Significantly more elephants were found to be seized in 2014-2015 than in the other time periods combined. We found evidence of the illegal capture of wild elephants from wildlife protected areas and state forests. More importantly, we identified evidence of corruption of wildlife officers, involvement of politicians and other high-ranking personnel in the illegal wildlife trade, and lack of active enforcement of wildlife law as major challenges to overcome if the illegal capture and domestic trade of wild elephants in Sri Lanka are to be halted. Based on our study, we make a series of recommendations that should result in implementing policy to reduce the trafficking of Asian elephants in Sri Lanka and improve the conservation management of the species."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"A perceived dissonance exists between the stated conservation mission of modern zoos and the composition of species in their care. A bias toward charismatic taxa over threatened ones has been demonstrated in several studies. However, these prior examinations have principally relied on species threat status derived from global lists, and threat status reported for species on national and subnational lists often differ from global assessments. It has been suggested that some globally non-threatened species maintained in zoos might fulfill local conservation priorities. In this study, we compare local threat status and zoo population size for native bird, mammal, reptile and amphibian species in North American zoos to assess the representation of locally threatened taxa. We found that native locally threatened species were kept in North American zoos slightly less than would be expected by chance; however, of the species that were represented in zoos, those that were threatened in more of the subnational regions where they occurred averaged larger populations within zoos. This suggests that the direct contribution from zoo animals to the conservation of locally threatened species is relatively limited with respect to taxonomic coverage, but this contribution may be underestimated by strictly counting the threatened species kept in zoos."	NonUS	Conservation
"One of the most well-studied biogeographic patterns is increasing body size with latitude, and recent body size declines in marine and terrestrial organisms have received growing attention. Spatial and temporal variation in temperature is the generally invoked driver but food abundance and quality are also emphasized. However, the underlying mechanisms are not clear and the actual cause is likely to differ both within and among species. Here, we focused our attention on drivers of body size in planktivorous fish that forage through vision. This group of organisms plays a central role in marine ecosystems by linking the energy flow from lower to higher trophic levels. Using a model that incorporates explicit mechanisms for vision-based feeding and physiology, we investigated the influence on optimal body size of several biotic (prey size, prey energy content, and prey biomass concentration) and abiotic (temperature, latitude, and water clarity) factors known to affect foraging rates and bioenergetics. We found prey accessibility to be the most influential factor for body size, determined primarily by prey size but also by water clarity, imposing visual constraints on prey encounters and thereby limiting feeding rates. Hence, for planktivores that forage through vision, an altered composition of the prey field could have important implications for body size and for the energy available for reproduction and other fitness-related tasks. Understanding the complicated effects of climate change on zooplankton communities is thus crucial for predicting impacts on planktivorous fish, as well as consequences for energy flows and body sizes in marine systems."	NonUS	Ecology
"Little is known about the effect of anthropogenic habitat disturbances on the group size and population structure of geladas (Theropithecus gelada), even though such data are crucial to implementing successful conservation actions and management plans. In this study, we compared the group size and composition of gelada populations inhabiting protected (Borena Sayint Na-tional Park) and unprotected habitats that experience different levels of human disturbances in Wollo, Ethiopia. We collected gelada population data using the total count method to determine the population number and to examine the influence of anthropogenic disturbances on the group sizes and social systems (band, all-male unit (AMU), or one-male unit (OMU)) of geladas. Overall, we counted a total of 2786 individuals of geladas belonging to 59 groups in both protected and unprotected habitats. The mean band size of geladas in the protected habitat was 81.6 in-dividuals, while it was 40.1 in the unprotected habitat. In the protected habitat, the mean number of adult males per group (including both bands and OMUs) was 5.7, while it was 3.1 in the unprotected habitat. In the protected site, the mean number of immatures per group was 21.5, whereas it was 10.5 in the unprotected habitat. Likewise, the mean number of adult females per group in the protected habitat was nearly twice that of the unprotected site. However, the pro-portion numbers of age/sex compositions were not significantly different between the two hab-itats. In the protected habitat, the overall average adult male to adult female sex ratio was 1:5.1, while it was 1:4.8 in the unprotected area. The band size of geladas in the protected habitat was significantly and positively correlated with the altitude. Our study shows that geladas can withstand anthropogenically disturbed habitats by adjusting their band sizes to the optimal level. Such flexibility in group size is an adaptation strategy of geladas for maximizing foraging efficiency in response to broad grassland habitat losses and degradations. Although geladas are flexible in their population ecology, it is crucial to implement appropriate conservation measures to ensure their long-term persistence in the human-modified landscapes of the Ethiopian Highlands."	NonUS	Conservation
"Plant eradication is difficult, particularly in remote, protected areas. The Southern Ocean Islands are very isolated and highly protected, but the flora contains many alien plants. Small restricted populations have been eradicated, but eradication of established species has proven difficult. A better understanding of the efficacy of control methods at sub-Antarctic temperatures and their off-target impacts may increase eradication success. With interest in controlling non-native Poa annua in the region, we aimed to determine if physical and chemical methods can control P. annua (the sub-Antarctic biotype) in sub-Antarctic conditions and examined their impact on native plants. We quantified the effectiveness of physical control methods on P. annua in situ on sub-Antarctic Macquarie Island through field-based experiments and assessed their selectivity on P. annua compared with native grasses. We also quantified the effectiveness of several herbicides on P. annua at sub-Antarctic temperatures and assessed their selectivity on native grasses. Of the four physical disturbance methods tested, none effectively reduced P. annua cover as one-off treatments. Of the herbicide treatments, glyphosate and trifloxysulfuron sodium were effective and were less damaging to native grass species, indicating potential selectivity. Physical control was of limited effectiveness, but did not affect native species richness. An integrated weed management programme utilising the strategic use of selective herbicides with follow-up chemical and physical intervention may balance control and biodiversity outcomes. This research highlights the importance of site-specific testing of control methods and understanding off-target impacts of control when managing alien plant species in protected areas."	NonUS	Conservation
"This study briefly discusses the relatively young private wildlife industry of South Africa which surfaced in the late 1990s, early 2000s. The industry has unique conservation management models and land uses that include hunting, breeding and game sales and ecotourism and by-products as well as mixed farming practices that include stock and crop farming. The research found that breeding and game sales are the most productive land-use form. Since this research was conducted, the market for live game sales collapsed and the authors believe that other wildlife-related land uses, such as ecotourism and by-products, will gain popularity in the future to replace breeding which is now less favourable. Furthermore, it was also found that different farm sizes influence the land uses, and a combination of land uses was chosen to be incorporated on a private wildlife establishment. A qualitative research approach was followed, and 223 privately owned wildlife establishment owners and managers were interviewed at fourteen auctions across South Africa. This research also concludes that since most wildlife are found on private conservation land, this research is a must for the industry as it can guide private wildlife establishment owners and managers to manage their private wildlife establishments most productively. Since this research was conducted, the market for live game sales collapsed, and the results show that fewer wildlife establishments are now breeding with game. These game farmers or wildlife establishment owners are now looking for different options on their land. If they cannot find an alternative in the wildlife industry, they will divert to other farming activities such as cattle farming. This will lead to a decrease in land for wildlife, which can impact wildlife numbers in South Africa. The authors believe that land use such as ecotourism and by-products will gain popularity in the future to replace breeding. This research also shows where there are opportunities in the wildlife industry."	NonUS	Conservation
"The accelerated rate of human-induced environmental change poses a significant challenge for wildlife. The ability of wild animals to adapt to environmental changes has important consequences for their fitness, survival, and reproduction. Behavioural flexibility, an immediate adjustment of behaviour in response to environmental variability, may be particularly important for coping with anthropogenic change. The main aim of this study was to quantify the response of two wintering goose species (bean goose Anser fabalis and lesser white-fronted goose Anser erythropus) to poor habitat condition at population level by studying foraging behaviour. In addition, we tested whether behavioural plasticity could alter trophic niche. We characterised foraging behaviours and calculated daily home range (HR) of the geese using global positioning system tracking data. We calculated standard ellipse areas to quantify niche width using the delta C-13 and delta N-15 values of individual geese. We linked behavioural plasticity with habitat quality using ANCOVA (analysis of covariance) models. We also tested the correlation between standard ellipse areas and HR using ANCOVA model. We found significant differences in geese foraging behaviours between years in their daily foraging area, travel distance and speed, and turning angle. Specifically, the birds increased their foraging area to satisfy their daily energy intake requirement in response to poor habitat conditions. They flew more sinuously and travelled faster and longer distances on a daily basis. For the endangered lesser white-fronted goose, all behaviour variables were associated with habitat quality. For bean goose, only HR and turning angle were correlated with habitat quality. The birds, especially the lesser white-fronted goose, may have had a higher trophic position under poor conditions. Our findings indicate that wintering geese showed a high degree of behavioural plasticity. However, more active foraging behaviours under poor habitat condition did not lead to a broader trophic niche. Habitat availability could be responsible to the divergent responses of foraging HR and isotopic niche to human-induced environmental change. Therefore, maintaining natural hydrological regimes during the critical period (i.e. September-November) to ensure that quality food resources are available is central to the future of populations of geese within the East Asian-Australasian Flyway."	NonUS	Ecology
"The long-tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis) has a wide range in both Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo. Although the primates are especially vulnerable to habitat alterations, this primate lives in disturbed habitats due to human-induced land-use. Thus, this study presents a faecal metabarcoding approach to clarify the plant diet of long-tailed macaques from five locations in Peninsular Malaysia to represent fragmented forest, forest edge, island and recreational park habitats. We extracted genomic DNA from 53 long-tailed macaque faecal samples. We found 47 orders, 126 families, 609 genera and 818 species across these five localities. A total of 113 plant families were consumed by long-tailed macaques in Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 61 in the Malaysia Genome and Vaccine Institute, 33 in Langkawi Island, 53 in Redang Island and 44 in the Cenderawasih Cave. Moraceae (33.24%) and Fabaceae (13.63%) were the most common families consumed by long-tailed macaques from the study localities. We found that habitat type impacted diet composition, indicating the flexibility of foraging activities. This research findings provide an understanding of plant dietary diversity and the adaptability of this macaque with the current alteration level that applies to long-tailed macaque conservation management interest in the future."	NonUS	Ecology
"Spatial heterogeneity in environmental characteristics can drive adaptive differentiation when contrasting environments exert divergent selection pressures. This environmental and genetic heterogeneity can substantially influence population and community resilience to disturbance events. Here, we investigated corals from the highly variable back-reef habitats of Ofu Island in American Samoa that thrive in thermal conditions known to elicit widespread bleaching and mortality elsewhere. To investigate the relative importance of acclimation versus site of origin in shaping previously observed differences in coral tolerance limits at Ofu Island, specimens of the common Indo-Pacific coral Porites lobata from locations with differing levels of thermal variability were acclimated to low and high thermal variation in controlled common garden aquaria. Overall, there were minimal effects of the acclimation exposure. Corals native to the site with the highest level of daily variability grew fastest, regardless of acclimation treatment. When exposed to lethal thermal stress, corals native to both variable sites contained elevated levels of heat shock proteins and maintained photosynthetic performance for 1-2 days longer than corals from the stable environment. Despite being separated by <5 km, there was significant genetic differentiation among coral colonies (F-ST=0.206, P<0.0001; nuclear ribosomal DNA), whereas Symbiodiniaceae were all Cladocopium sp. (ITS type C15). Our study demonstrates consistent signatures of adaptation in growth and stress resistance in corals from naturally thermally variable habitats, suggesting that differences in the amount of thermal variability may be an important contributor to adaptive differentiation in reef-building corals."	USA	Genetics
"Our knowledge on the biology and ecology of marine species have improved greatly through the use of archival tags by enabling the collection on information from individual in the wild. This is specifically true for large pelagic species such as the Atlantic Bluefin tuna (ABFT, Thunnus thynnus) where, for the first time, it has been possible to confirm through fisheries-independent data, migration patterns, reproductive and feeding behaviours and habitat use. However, large-scale tagging experiments that would enable researchers to tackle group behaviour are difficult to set up. On the one hand, the impact of the actual tagging operation should be as minimal as possible to avoid any change in behaviour of the fish which could influence tag data analyses. On the other hand, large scale tagging experiments require handling a large number of animals in a relatively short period of time. In the present manuscript, a methodology for tagging several large ABFT with satellite tags was tested with ABFT caught from a cage of a Maltese farm. The total time of the operation, from the moment fish were caught by handline to release back to the sea lasted an average of 10 min for the 3 fish tagged. The handling of the fish on the deck lasted less than 2 min. This methodology proved successful at tagging several large (158-182 cm) fishes in a very short time, while ensuring the best conditions for the fish during tagging and subsequent release. This procedure requires substantial logistical preparation and an experienced crew team but, by reducing the time required for the operation, opens up the possibility of large scale tagging activities of large fish held in cages or caught by purse seiners."	NonUS	Technology
"Microbial communities in the world ocean are affected strongly by oceanic circulation, creating characteristic marine biomes. The high connectivity of most of the ocean makes it difficult to dis-entangle selective retention of colonizing genotypes (with traits suited to biome specific conditions) from evolutionary selection, which would act on founder genotypes over time. The Arctic Ocean is exceptional with limited exchange with other oceans and ice covered since the last ice age. To test whether Arctic microalgal lineages evolved apart from algae in the global ocean, we sequenced four lineages of microalgae isolated from Arctic waters and sea ice. Here we show convergent evolution and highlight geographically limited HGT as an ecological adaptive force in the form of PFAM complements and horizontal acquisition of key adaptive genes. Notably, ice-binding proteins were acquired and hori-zontally transferred among Arctic strains. A comparison with Tara Oceans metagenomes and metatranscriptomes confirmed mostly Arctic distributions of these IBPs. The phylogeny of Arctic-specific genes indicated that these events were inde-pendent of bacterial-sourced HGTs in Antarctic Southern Ocean microalgae."	NonUS	Genetics
"Marine heatwaves (MHWs), discrete periods of extreme warm water temperatures superimposed onto persistent ocean warming, have increased in frequency and significantly disrupted marine ecosystems. While field observations on the ecological consequences of MHWs are growing, a mechanistic understanding of their direct effects is rare. We conducted an outdoor tank experiment testing how different thermal stressor profiles impacted the ecophysiological performance of three dominant forest-forming seaweeds. Four thermal scenarios were tested: contemporary summer temperature (22 degrees C), low persistent warming (24 degrees C), a discrete MHW (22-27 degrees C), and temperature variability followed by a MHW (22-24 degrees C, 22-27 degrees C). The physiological performance of seaweeds was strongly related to thermal profile and varied among species, with the highest temperature not always having the strongest effect. MHWs were highly detrimental for the fucoid Phyllospora comosa, whereas the laminarian kelp Ecklonia radiata showed sensitivity to extended thermal stress and demonstrated a cumulative temperature threshold. The fucoid Sargassum linearifolium showed resilience, albeit with signs of decline with bleached and degraded fronds, under all conditions, with stronger decline under stable control and warming conditions. The varying responses of these three co-occurring forest-forming seaweeds under different temperature scenarios suggests that the impact of ocean warming on near shore ecosystems may be complex and will depend on the specific thermal profile of rising water temperatures relative to the vulnerability of different species."	NonUS	Ecology
"Exotic species are known to cause an impact on native species and the environment through various ecological processes. Their impact on disease dynamics is not completely understood, but their relationship with the local fauna can favour the emergence of zoonoses. We reported records of predation of feral pigs (Sus scrofa) by common vampire bats (Desmodus rotundus) in the Brazilian Pantanal wetland and detailed how the traditional hunting, which involves castration management and hunting dogs, can represent a risk to emergency of rabies virus. With 1.43% of attack probability recorded by camera traps, we highlight the potential role of this interaction in disseminating zoonosis, especially in a scenario where hunting management has been prioritised as a policy tool in the control of exotic species. We alerted for the danger of rabies onset. Moreover, we suggested that the ranchers avoid contact with the pigs' salivary secretions during hunting, to maintain up to date rabies vaccination on domestic animals, and pay attention to the clinical behaviours of rabies in their hunting dogs. Therefore, we must be aware of all the risks involved in interactions between humans and wildlife to reevaluate our practices and prevent viral outbreaks as we currently witness."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Temporally coordinated interactive vocalizations are important means of communication between individuals in various animal taxa. In mammals, interactive calling and singing can be highly synchronized to create either overlapping or antiphonal duets while in others, competitors antagonistically vocalize, engaging in counter-singing. Among non-primate mammals these vocalizations are considered rare and poorly understood. We provide an overview of antiphonal calling, duetting and counter-singing in non-primate mammals. Many of these coordinated vocalizations play a role in social interactions and allow mammals to convey information to other members of the social unit in visually inaccessible environments. South American Bamboo rats Dactylomys spp. are arboreal bamboo specialists found in dense bamboo thickets in Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Brazil and Colombia. These nocturnal rodents are rarely seen but can be easily heard because of their loud and distinctive staccato vocalizations. We provide some evidence that Bamboo rats engage in duetting, and as such they provide another case of a mammalian species, in which to investigate temporally coordinated interactive singing. We urge researchers to work toward common definitions of temporally coordinated vocalizations and to search for more mammals that utilize such vocalizations."	USA	Ecology
"Wildlife tourism uses various stimuli to attract species and facilitate close encounters. Such activities are often referred to as provisioning, however the term is used interchangeably, and sometimes erroneously, with attracting, feeding, luring, and chumming, all of which lack consistent definitions. Here, we review the current use of provisioning-associated terminology in marine bird, teleost (bony fish), marine mammal, marine reptile, ray and shark tourism, within the scientific literature and on tourism operator webpages. We then propose to reclassify provisioning into Feeding, Attracting, and Modifying habitat, providing eight specific terms that reflect: (1) if the stimulus exploits wildlife appetite or search for preferred habitat; (2) the nature of the attractant (consumable or not); (3) the intention of the activity if using consumable attractants (direct, indirect, or incidental feeding) or modified habitat (intentional or repurposed modification); and (4) which species are affected by the activity (target or non-target species). We applied these terms to wildlife tourism around the world to gain better insight into tourism practices across taxa. Clarifying the terminology describing these wildlife interactions ensures they can be accurately described in the scientific literature, which will in turn help resource managers and industry groups to systematically assess these diverse activities."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"The aim of our study is to estimate the abundance and sources of floating microplastics (MPs) along a coastal lagoon ecocline in a marine conservation unit (MCU) for implementing effective prevention and mitigation actions in South Brazil. MPs were sampled monthly, and the abundance and size were determined for hard solids, soft plastic, plastic filaments, and paint fragments. Attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR) analysis was performed, and the MPs were classified as polyethylene, polyester, polypropylene, polybutadiene, and polystyrene. Downstream areas (outside of the MCU) showed high levels of MPs, during the winter, due to low precipitation and the predominance of S/SE winds. During summer, precipitation increases, and MPs are exported with surface runoff, resulting in lower level of MPs. Outside MCU areas, a high concentration of tourism houses, commercials, and artisanal fisheries were observed, which could contribute to all types of plastic debris found in our study."	NonUS	Conservation
"No-take marine reserves are common strategies used in spatial fisheries management. There are at least four general objectives for marine reserve design: (1) maximizing conservation, (2) minimizing total reserve area, (3) maximizing reserve compactness, and (4) minimizing socioeconomic opportunity cost (e.g., fisheries revenue). A spatial optimization model was developed to solve for reserve placements under those four objectives, while evaluating the bioeconomic tradeoffs and potential gaps of a subset of bottomfish restricted fishing areas (BRFAs) for the Hawaiian bottomfish fishery. Optimized reserve placements with minimal opportunity costs had little overlap (< 9%) with the placements of the BRFAs, opportunity cost values 50-83% less than that of the BRFAs with 40-54% higher potential conservation value. When reserve placements were optimized to provide a maximal opportunity cost, solutions had up to 49% overlap with the BRFAs, highlighting a potential drawback of the BRFA system with respect to socioeconomic impacts. When opportunity cost was instead calculated as total area, the optimized placements also had considerable overlap (up to 42%) with the BRFAs, highlighting the importance of socioeconomic data to the reserve design process. The solutions that provided maximal reserve compactness may be the most pragmatic for a reserve design team with specific area and/or conservation targets, as these solutions produced compact reserve placements that best matched those targets at a minimal opportunity cost. This analysis emphasized the use of spatial optimization models to not only guide the reserve design process, but to highlight tradeoffs of conflicting fisheries objectives in reserve design."	USA	Fisheries
"Urban riparian corridors have the capacity to maintain high levels of bird abundance and biodiversity. How riparian corridors in cities are used by waterbirds has received relatively little focus in urban bird studies. The principal objective of our study was to determine how habitat and landscape elements affect waterbird biodiversity in an arid city. We surveyed 36 transects stratified across a gradient of urbanization and water availability along the Salt River, a riparian corridor that is monitored as part of the Central Arizona-Phoenix Long Term Ecological Research study system located in Phoenix, Arizona, USA. Habitat and landscape variables were reduced via Principal Component Analysis to be used in a constrained ordination that identified waterbird community composition patterns, and then used to model the responses of guild abundance and diversity. Habitat and landscape components from the constrained ordination explained 39% of the variation in the waterbird community. Land use components were related to the suite of species at each site, but had a weaker relationship to guild abundance or diversity. Habitat-level components (water physiognomy, shoreline composition, and terrestrial vegetation cover) were more important in predicting both guild abundance and diversity. We found that water physiognomy was the strongest driver shaping waterbird community parameters. The implications of our study are relevant to urban planning in arid cities, offering the opportunity to design and improve wildlife habitat while providing other important public amenities."	USA	Ecology
"A metatranscriptome study targeting the protistan community was conducted off the coast of Southern California, at the San Pedro Ocean Time-series station at the surface, 150 m (oxycline), and 890 m to link putative metabolic patterns to distinct protistan lineages. Comparison of relative transcript abundances revealed depth-related shifts in the nutritional modes of key taxonomic groups. Eukaryotic gene expression in the sunlit surface environment was dominated by phototrophs, such as diatoms and chlorophytes, and high abundances of transcripts associated with synthesis pathways (e.g., photosynthesis, carbon fixation, fatty acid synthesis). Sub-euphotic depths (150 and 890 m) exhibited strong contributions from dinoflagellates and ciliates, and were characterized by transcripts relating to digestion or intracellular nutrient recycling (e.g., breakdown of fatty acids and V-type ATPases). These transcriptional patterns underlie the distinct nutritional modes of ecologically important protistan lineages that drive marine food webs, and provide a framework to investigate trophic dynamics across diverse protistan communities."	USA	Ecology
"Most of the biodiversity studies in the South European Atlantic Shelf ecoregion are limited to shallow subtidal or intertidal habitats, while deeper reef habitats, also of relevant ecological importance, are particularly understudied. Macroalgal communities, associated fauna, and sea surface temperature were studied in deep reefs (25-30 m) at two locations in this ecoregion: Parcel, North of Portugal (41 degrees N), and Tarifa, Southern Spain (35 degrees N). Specifically, algal assemblages were assessed using biomass collection and associated ichthyofauna was assessed using visual census techniques using scuba. Seawater surface temperature was higher (>3 degrees C) in the southern region-Tarifa, compared to the northern region-Parcel. Our survey revealed 18 fish species and 23 algae species. The highest abundance of cold-water species (both macroalgae and fish species) was recorded in Parcel and warm-water species were dominant in Tarifa. In light of climate global trends, both regions might experience biodiversity shifts towards tropicalization. Current knowledge on their biodiversity is imperative to further evaluate potential shifts."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Climate-driven sea level rise has severe consequences for drained agricultural areas near coasts. The least productive of these can be restored into marine wetlands of high ecological quality by managed realignment. This study assessed the nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) balance in a 214 ha coastal lagoon formed after flooding of agricultural land by managed realignment. N and P loss from the soils was monitored over a 5-year period after flooding using three independent approaches: (1) temporal changes in N and P inventories of the soil; (2) flux of dissolved inorganic N and P from the flooded soil; and (3) tidal N and P exchange across the outer boundary in the form of particulate and dissolved nutrients. All three approaches showed similar initial release and tidal export of N and P the first year(s) after flooding followed by decreasing rates. The annual loss ranged from 157 to 299 kg N ha(-1) yr(-1)and 29 to 63 kg P ha(-1) yr(-1)during the first year. N loss decreased rapidly after the first 2 years and reached a level of 28-65 kg N ha(-1) yr(-1), while P loss declined after the first year and remained stable and relatively high at 18-32 kg P ha(-1) yr(-1)thereafter. High N and P export after implementing managed realignment of agricultural land may deteriorate environmental conditions in the adjacent marine recipients for at least 5 years. Particularly small and stagnant water bodies vulnerable to eutrophication should be avoided as recipients."	NonUS	Ecology
"The construction of two sand breakwaters in Guangli Port might cause changes to the marine environment of Laizhou Bay. Tidal flow field and conservative substance transport are simulated by a two-dimensional hydrodynamic model MIKE21 to assess the impact of breakwaters on the hydrodynamic environment. The results show that the construction has minor influences on the tidal currents. The changes mainly occur in the region near the port (about 20 km(2) in area). The directions of currents during flood tide and ebb tide veer less than 20 degrees, and a maximum change in speed of (0.87 +/- 0.1)m s(-1) occurs in between the breakwaters during ebb tide. However, the self-purification ability of Laizhou Bay is significantly reduced according to the conservative substance transport model, especially in the southwest (about 100 km from the Guangli Port to the estuary of Xiaoqinghe River), where the water exchange rate decreases by 10%-20%. The breakwaters slow down the northward current during ebb tide, which causes the accumulation of pollutants."	NonUS	Ecology
"The aggregate structure of vegetation has long provided a strong conceptual basis for understanding the ecological separation of faunal species, while correspondence with plant species composition remains largely underdeveloped and considered secondary to structure. Longstanding ecological debate on the matter has likely been sustained by statistical methods incapable of accommodating an entire species composition in the explanatory role. We used direct ordination methodologies (predictive co-correspondence and canonical correspondence analyses) that allow the comparison of prediction levels between composition and structure for understanding avian assemblage composition in a temperate forestland in southeastern Ohio. Compositional (birds and woody plants) and structural (both vertical and horizontal dimensions) data were collected from point samples comprising a spectrum in topography and successional state. Total woody plant composition (11.22%) explained more (cross-validatory) variation in avian species composition than structure, quantified with dense LiDAR recordings (7.35%) and field methods (6.31%). Plant composition assumed an integrative character, synthesizing aspects of environmental condition, structure, and most likely species-specific preferences for tree and shrub species that structural indices alone could not for predicting avian species composition. These results conflict with the traditional view that structure be most influential to avian assemblage composition. Instead these results demonstrate that plant and avian assemblages are closely linked, and that plant species per se can be a powerful tool for predicting avian habitat. More importantly, in furthering ecological understanding, it is critical to consider the complex web of interacting processes that make up temperate forest ecosystems, in which composition occupies a key position."	USA	Ecology
"Small populations resulting from the impacts of habitat fragmentation are prone to increased risks of extinction because of a lack of population connectivity. Roads increase habitat fragmentation, but properly managed roadsides may be able to function as wildlife corridors. Here we use radiotelemetry to observe movement patterns of Gopher Tortoises (Gopherus polyphentus) along potential roadside corridors at the John F. Kennedy Space Center (KSC) in Florida, USA, to determine if tortoises use roadsides as movement pathways between larger habitat patches or as residential habitat. Additionally, we translocated tortoises to study the feasibility of roadsides to function as movement corridors. We found that roadsides are not used as a movement pathway but rather as an apparent long-term residential habitat. Only one tortoise was observed exiting the roadside corridor, and minimum convex polygon (MCP) home range sizes and distances traveled remain similar to those exhibited by tortoises in larger habitat patches. Following translocation, we observed a failure to return home, either by direct paths or by corridor use, for all but one tortoise. Instead, most tortoises remained along roadsides after only a brief period of exploration. Overall, we find that roadsides act as independent, residential habitat instead of as a movement corridor. Future studies should focus on understanding the actual suitability of roadsides, as they may function as ecological traps given their attractiveness but high risk of mortality. While we urge caution, current management should treat roadsides as residential locations for Gopher Tortoises and focus on reducing road mortality."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Feather mites are obligatory ectosymbionts of birds that primarily feed on the oily secretions from the uropygial gland. Feather mite abundance varies within and among host species and has various effects on host condition and fitness, but there is little consensus on factors that drive variation of this symbiotic system. We tested hypotheses regarding how within-species and among-species traits explain variation in both (1) mite abundance and (2) relationships between mite abundance and host body condition and components of host fitness (reproductive performance and apparent annual survival). We focused on two closely related (Parulidae), but ecologically distinct, species: Setophaga cerulea (Cerulean Warbler), a canopy dwelling open-cup nester, and Protonotaria citrea (Prothonotary Warbler), an understory dwelling, cavity nester. We predicted that feather mites would be more abundant on and have a more parasitic relationship with P.citrea, and within P.citrea, females and older individuals would harbor greater mite abundances. We captured, took body measurements, quantified feather mite abundance on individuals' primaries and rectrices, and monitored individuals and their nests to estimate fitness. Feather mite abundance differed by species, but in the opposite direction of our prediction. There was no relationship between mite abundance and any measure of body condition or fitness for either species or sex (also contrary to our predictions). Our results suggest that species biology and ecological context may influence mite abundance on hosts. However, this pattern does not extend to differential effects of mites on measures of host body condition or fitness."	USA	Ecology
"This paper presents an insight into the mobility of the marine fishers of Pentakota area of Puri District of Odisha, migrated from various parts of Andhra Pradesh in search of sustainable livelihood and better socio-economic conditions. The study relied on primary data collected from 147 migrant fishermen households selected through random sampling method. The study attempts to examine the pros and cons of labour mobility in the marine fisheries sector. Analysis on the socio-economic profile of the migrant fishers revealed that 64% of migrant populations are in the age group 31-50 years and most of them belong to Christian and Hindu religions and 87% of them are from other backward castes (OBC). The prime reasons for migration included low income, debts and financial commitments and disguised unemployment. The analysis indicated that consequent to migration, the fishers augmented their income besides increased savings, construction of house and possession of personal assets along with an elevation to their social status. The expenditure pattern of the migrants including clothing, shelter, food and education of dependents were also analysed. The major problems confronted during migration are language barrier, cultural lag and conflicts with established migrant labourers. Even though the labour mobility has contributed much to the marine fishery economy of the region, the ecological and social changes might impact occasional conflict between the migrants and native fishers for the scarce marine fishery resources. Hence, sufficient steps have to be taken for skill development and improvement of socio-economic conditions of the migrant fishers as well as for better management of conflicts among fishers."	NonUS	Fisheries
"In the application of reproductive science to conservation breeding, it has long been assumed that artificial insemination using frozen thawed sperm would be the default technology. This has al-ways been problematic considering the wide range of tolerance to freeze thawing among verte-brate sperm. Furthermore, those providing leadership for genome banking should be proactive to preserve maximum genetic diversity, however, for many species there is little or no sperm motility after thawing of cryopreserved sperm. In this review article, there is the contention that a much wider range of tissues should be banked, and the range of evolving advanced reproductive and developmental technologies should be considered for conservation breeding programs, to realize the maximum opportunities of genome banking to contribute to conservation of animal species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Biodiversity loss is a major global challenge of the 21st century. Ultimately, extinctions of species are determined by birth and death rates; thus, conservation management of at-risk species is dependent on robust demographic data. In this study, data gathered from 381 (227 females, 154 males) long-finned pilot whales (Globicephala melas edwardii) that died in 14 stranding events on the New Zealand coast between 2006 and 2017 were used to construct the first age- and sex-specific life tables for the subspecies. Survivorship curves were fitted to these data using (1) a traditional maximum likelihood approach, and (2) Siler's competing-risk model. Life table construction and subsequent survival curves revealed distinct differences in the age- and sex-specific survival rates, with females outliving males. Both sexes revealed elevated rates of mortality among the youngest age-classes (<2 years) with postweaning mortality rates decreasing and remaining relatively low until the average life expectancy is reached; 11.3 years for males and 14.7 years for females. Overall (total) mortality is estimated to be 8.8% and 6.8% per annum for males and females, respectively. The mortality curve resembles that of other large mammals, with high calf mortality, lower postweaning mortality, and an exponentially increasing risk of senescent mortality. An accelerated mortality rate was observed in mature females, in contrast to the closely related short-finned pilot whale (G. macrorhynchus), which selects for an extension to the postreproductive life span. The reason for the observed differences in the mortality rate acceleration and postreproductive life span between the two pilot whale species have not been established and warrant further investigation. Obtaining robust information on the life history of long-lived species is challenging, but essential to improve our understanding of population dynamics and help predict how future pressures may impact populations. This study illustrates how demographic data from cetacean stranding events can improve knowledge of species survival rates, thus providing essential information for conservation management."	NonUS	Conservation
"Cold-water coral (CWC) mounds are biogenic, long-lived morphostructures composed primarily by scleractinian CWC's and hemipelagic sediments that form complex deep-sea microhabitats found globally but specifically along the European-Atlantic margin. In this work, high-resolution mapping was applied to identify individual organismal distribution and zonation across a CWC Piddington Mound within the Porcupine Seabight, Ireland Margin. Marine Object-Based Image Analysis (MOBIA) and different machine learning classification methods (decision tree, logistic regression, and deep neural network) were applied to a high-resolution (2 mm) reef-scale video mosaic and ROV-mounted multibeam data in order to provide new insights into the spatial organization of coral frameworks and environmental factors on CWC mounds. The results showed an accurate quantification of the amount of Coral Framework (14.5%; similar to 2% live and similar to 12.5% dead) and sponges (similar to 3.5%) with heterogeneous distribution, restricted to a certain portion of the mound. This is the first object level quantification of live and dead coral framework facies and individual sponges across an entire CWC mound. This approach has application for habitat and conservation studies, provides a quantification tool for carbon budget assessments and can provide a baseline to assess CWC mound change. The approach can also be modified for application in other habitats."	NonUS	Technology
"Avian species often take advantage of human-made structures, such as perching on power poles, although this can lead to negative effects for both birds and infrastructure. It has been demonstrated that anchor-type pylons, with strain insulators, are amongst the most dangerous of these structures. Our goal was to develop a methodological approach to evaluate the ways in which raptors perch on the six most commonly used strain insulator configurations in Spain, and to build a risk index that can be used to prioritise them. To study the ways raptors perch, we worked with six wildlife rescue centres in central Spain for almost a year assessing these six strain insulator configurations in 83 perch trials with 176 raptors in ample flying pens. We analysed 475 complete survey days, with an approximate number of 258,960 analysed pictures, including 6,766 perchings on strain insulators. We assessed the influential factors for these 6,766 perchings and developed a novel approach to prioritise strain insulator configurations that can be used anywhere. Our results suggest that longer insulator strains (i.e. PECA-1000 and Caon-C3670) are the safest, according to our prioritization criteria, although these results require further assessment in the field. Managers and conservationists should take into account these results to improve management and conservation actions."	NonUS	Conservation
"Vast mosaics of lakes, wetlands, and rivers on the Arctic Coastal Plain give the impression of water surplus. Yet long winters lock freshwater resources in ice, limiting freshwater habitats and water supply for human uses. Increasingly the petroleum industry relies on lakes to build temporary ice roads for winter oil exploration. Permitting water withdrawal for ice roads in Arctic Alaska is dependent on lake depth, ice thickness, and the fish species present. Recent winter warming suggests that more winter water will be available for ice-road construction, yet high interannual variability in ice thickness and summer precipitation complicates habitat impact assessments. To address these concerns, multidisciplinary researchers are working to understand how Arctic freshwater habitats are responding to changes in both climate and water use in northern Alaska. The dynamics of habitat availability and connectivity are being linked to how food webs support fish and waterbirds across diverse freshwater habitats. Moving toward watershed-scale habitat classification coupled with scenario analysis of climate extremes and water withdrawal is increasingly relevant to future resource management decisions in this region. Such progressive refinement in understanding responses to change provides an example of adaptive management focused on ensuring responsible resource development in the Arctic."	NonUS	Ecology
"Environmental variation influences fish assemblage structure; however, fish assemblage composition shifts due to natural or anthropogenic stressors have been observed in marine ecosystems worldwide, altering ecosystem structure and function, and fisheries sustainability. Previous research in waters off North and South Carolina (USA) was limited in scope and repeatability or did not quantify fish assemblages at a scale suitable for monitoring composition shifts. Concurrent chevron traps, underwater video, and environmental data from an annual fisheryindependent survey were used to characterize the environment and enumerate demersal reef fishes caught in the traps, and priority fish species observed in video in depths similar to 15-110 m. Multivariate analyses detected assemblage patterns and environmental influences. An 8-variable (distance to shelf edge, depth, consolidated substrate size, latitude, percent biotic cover, temperature, undercut height, biotic class) model predicted assemblages, while 4 variables explained the greatest variation (distance to shelf edge [19%], depth [15%], consolidated substrate vertical relief [4%], size [4%]). The largest number of discriminator species occurred in mid- to outer shelf areas with greater substrate complexity (i.e. increasing substrate size and relief). Assemblages dominated by Centropristis striata at depths (similar to 15-40 m) with little substrate complexity transitioned towards assemblages dominated by Pagrus pagrus, higher prevalence of larger-bodied predators, and invasive Pterois spp. at depths (similar to 40-110 m) with greater substrate complexity. Understanding baseline assemblage characteristics and natural drivers of variability in fish assemblage structure is vital to conservation and management efforts that monitor changes in population abundance, the presence/absence of key species, and stressor-induced modifications of local assemblages, which are all measures of ecological health that underpin comprehensive assessments and management."	USA	Fisheries
"Marine managers routinely use spatial data to make decisions about their marine environment. Uncertainty associated with this spatial data can have profound impacts on these management decisions and their projected outcomes. Recent advances in modeling techniques, including species distribution models (SDMs), make it easier to generate continuous maps showing the uncertainty associated with spatial predictions and maps. However, SDM predictions and maps can be complex and nuanced. This complexity makes their use challenging for non-technical managers, preventing them from having the best available information to make decisions. To help bridge these communication and information gaps, we developed maps to illustrate how SDMs and associated uncertainty can be translated into readily usable products for managers. We also explicitly described the potential impacts of uncertainty on marine zoning decisions. This approach was applied to a case study in Saipan Lagoon, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI). Managers in Saipan are interested in minimizing the potential impacts of personal watercraft (e.g., jet skis) on staghorn Acropora (i.e., Acropora aspera, A. formosa, and A. pulchra), which is an important coral assemblage in the lagoon. We used a recently completed SDM for staghorn Acropora to develop maps showing the sensitivity of zoning options to three different prediction and three different uncertainty thresholds (nine combinations total). Our analysis showed that the amount of area and geographic location of predicted staghorn Acropora presence changed based on these nine combinations. These dramatically different spatial patterns would have significant zoning implications when considering where to exclude and/or allow jet skis operations inside the lagoon. They also show that different uncertainty thresholds may lead managers to markedly different conclusions and courses of action. Defining acceptable levels of uncertainty upfront is critical for ensuring that managers can make more informed decisions, meet their marine resource goals and generate favorable outcomes for their stakeholders."	USA	Technology
"The persistence of the coat color polymorphism melanism has been reported for several tropical felids, but its evolutionary advantages remain an active area of research. Few publications have explored melanism in the elusive species, oncilla (Leopardus tigrinus) within the Neotropical part of their range in Costa Rica. Herein, I present the first record of a melanistic oncilla within the montane cloud forest of Monteverde, Costa Rica. Recent studies have found support for theories (e.g. Temporal Segregation Hypothesis and Gloger's Rule) explaining the ecological advantages driving melanism in oncilla and tropical felid populations. However, it is unclear what is driving melanism in this Monteverde oncilla population due to the singular observation. Further research investigating whether melanism is occurring at a higher frequency in other individuals in the region is critical to better understanding the occurrence of melanism in local populations of this cryptic species. The montane cloud forest in Monteverde provides critical habitat to this vulnerable species within the small Neotropical part of their range. Melanistic individuals may be particularly threatened by land-use change and increasing human pressure if theories for the evolutionary advantages and ecological conditions motivating melanism are supported."	USA	Ecology
"Unsustainable wildlife trade across South-East Asia has contributed significantly to the extinction threats faced by many songbirds. The Barusan Shama Copsychus (malabaricus) melanurus, a highly-prized songster from the West Sumatran Archipelago, is one of the most threatened taxa in Asia's songbird trade crisis, yet its predicament is often overlooked because some taxonomists treat it as a mere subspecies of the widespread White-rumped Shama C. malabaricus. Here, we provide the first modern comprehensive assessment of the on-the-ground status of Barusan Shamas across all major islands of the West Sumatran Archipelago based on visual and bioacoustic surveys, mist-netting activity, as well as community interviews covering approximately the last five years. A lack of ornithological field records across many years as well as documented drops in local capture rates indicate that increasing poaching pressure and market value have likely driven the Barusan Shama to extinction in the wild on all islands except Siberut. Even on Siberut, we document a drastic population crash and estimate impending extinction in the wild within perhaps five years in the absence of considerable changes in human behaviour. The decline and presumed extermination of some Barusan Shama island populations was so precipitous that it became evident even within our five-year monitoring period. Although our field efforts and those of others must continue, this bird's future now likely hinges on ex situ conservation efforts. The Barusan Shama occurs in four described subspecies, each endemic to its own island group, further complicating conservation efforts. Although the nominate subspecies melanurus remains relatively common in captivity on Nias and Mentawai, the other three subspecies are currently known from captive populations of a magnitude of about 100 for hypolizus, a handful for opisthochrus and zero for mirabilis, casting doubt on whether ex situ efforts can be initiated fast enough to assure the survival of individual subspecies."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"There is growing interest in the delineation of feeding patterns in animals, but little is known about the interaction of multiple explanatory factors across broad geographical scales. The goal of this study was to identify the factors that together determine population-level patterns in piscivory in a globally distributed aquatic predator, the brown trout (Salmo trutta). A meta-analysis of peer-reviewed studies revealed that the prevalence (frequency of occurrence, %) of piscivory increases from riverine to marine ecosystems, with fish community type and the size-structure (ontogeny) of brown trout populations being the key drivers. Thus, piscivory was related to ecosystem-specific differences in predator body size (increasing in populations with large individuals) and fish community configurations (increasing with fish species richness). Fish species richness imposes important limitations on (i.e. in low diversity scenarios) or facilitate (i.e. in high diversity scenarios) piscivory in brown trout populations, with a low prevalence expected in low-diversity fish communities. In fresh water, piscivory is higher in lentic than lotic ecosystems and, in the former, increases with latitude. Competition in multi-species systems is expected to be higher than in simpler systems because the size-structure and species composition of fish assemblages, explaining cross-ecosystem differences in piscivory."	NonUS	Ecology
"Littorina saxatilis is becoming a model system for understanding the genomic basis of ecological speciation. The parallel formation of crab-adapted ecotypes that exhibit partial reproductive isolation from wave-adapted ecotypes has enabled genomic investigation of conspicuous shell traits. Recent genomic studies suggest that chromosomal rearrangements may enable ecotype divergence by reducing gene flow. However, the genomic architecture of traits that are divergent between ecotypes remains poorly understood. Here, we use 11,504 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers called using the recently released L. saxatilis genome to genotype 462 crab ecotype, wave ecotype and phenotypically intermediate Spanish L. saxatilis individuals with scored phenotypes. We used redundancy analysis to study the genetic architecture of loci associated with shell shape, shape corrected for size, shell size and shell ornamentation, and to compare levels of co-association among different traits. We discovered 341 SNPs associated with shell traits. Loci associated with trait divergence between ecotypes were often located inside putative chromosomal rearrangements recently characterized in Swedish L. saxatilis. In contrast, we found that shell shape corrected for size varied primarily by geographic site rather than by ecotype and showed little association with these putative rearrangements. We conclude that genomic regions of elevated divergence inside putative rearrangements were associated with divergence of L. saxatilis ecotypes along steep environmental axes-consistent with models of adaptation with gene flow-but were not associated with divergence among the three geographical sites. Our findings support predictions from models indicating the importance of genomic regions of reduced recombination allowing co-association of loci during ecological speciation with ongoing gene flow."	NonUS	Genetics
"There is an increasing emphasis in conservation strategies for large carnivores on facilitating their coexistence with humans. Justification for coexistence strategies should be based on a quantitative assessment of currently remaining large carnivores in human-dominated landscapes. An essential part of a carnivore's coexistence strategy has to rely on its prey. In this research, we studied snow leopards Panthera uncia whose habitat mainly comprises human-dominated, unprotected areas, to understand how a large carnivore and its primary prey, the bharal Pseudois nayaur, could coexist with human land use activities in a large proportion of its range. Using a combination of livestock census, camera trapping and wildlife surveys, across a broad gradient of livestock grazing intensity in a 363 000 km(2) landscape on the Tibetan Plateau, we found no evidence of livestock grazing impacts on snow leopard habitat use, bharal density and spatial distribution, even though livestock density was 13 times higher than bharal density. Bharal were found to prefer utilizing more rugged habitats at higher elevations with lower grass forage conditions, whereas livestock dominated in flat valleys at lower elevations with higher productivity, especially during the resource-scarce season. These findings suggest that the spatial niche separation between bharal and livestock, together with snow leopards' specialized bharal diet, minimized conflicts and allowed snow leopards and bharal to coexist in landscapes dominated by livestock grazing. In recent years, reduced hunting and nomadic herder's lifestyle changes towards permanent residence may have further reinforced this spatial separation. Our results indicated that, for developing conservation strategies for large carnivores, the niche of their prey in relation to human land-use is a key variable that needs to be evaluated."	NonUS	Ecology
"Question: Urbanization can alter both the physical and biological dimensions of landscapes, potentially leading to novel environmental pressures, patterns of selection, and distinct phenotypes. Here we seek to understand how both physical and biological dimensions of urbanization interact to drive phenotypic evolution of mosquitofish morphology and behaviour against a backdrop of natural landscape drivers. Study system: Western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) from 21 lakes of various sizes, ecoregions, introduced species regimes, and urban development levels in central California, USA. Methods: We catch, measure, and observe the behaviour of wild mosquitofish. We examine the magnitude and direction of trait changes in relation to shoreline urban development and species introductions (predators and competitors). We also analyse trait variation that is associated with innate landscape attributes, including lake size and eco-region (desert or coast). Results: Both physical and biological dimensions of urbanization - urban development and introductions of predators and competitors - lead to novel suites of mosquitofish traits associated with a niche shift towards sheltered fringe habitats. Effect sizes of urbanization on mosquitofish traits were comparable to those from innate landscape variables, suggesting that urbanization is a potent selective agent."	USA	Ecology
"The mass extinction characterizing the Permian/Triassic boundary (PTB; similar to 252 Ma) corresponds to a major faunal shift between the Palaeozoic and the Modern evolutionary fauna. The temporal, spatial, environmental, and ecological dynamics of the associated biotic recovery remain highly debated, partly due to the scarce, or poorly-known, Early Triassic fossil record. Recently, an exceptionally complex ecosystem dated from immediately after the Smithian/Spathian boundary (similar to 3 myr after the PTB) was reported: the Paris Biota (Idaho, USA). However, the spatiotemporal representativeness of this unique assemblage remained questionable as it was hitherto only reported from a single site. Here we describe three new exceptionally diverse assemblages of the same age as the Paris Biota, and a fourth younger one. They are located in Idaho and Nevada, and are taxonomic subsets of the Paris Biota. We show that the latter covered a region-wide area and persisted at least partially throughout the Spathian. The presence of a well-established marine fauna such as the Paris Biota, as soon as the early Spathian, indicates that the post-PTB biotic recovery and the installation of complex ecosystems probably took place earlier than often assumed, at least at a regional scale."	NonUS	Ecology
"Microplastics (MPs) are becoming ubiquitous in the marine environment and shallow marine sediments are one of the major sinks for MPs. In order to improve the knowledge about the environmental fate of MPs in the Aegean Sea shallow sediments, the occurrence and spatial distribution of MPs in Samos Island (Greece) was investigated for the first time, along a land-sea transect. The highest concentration of MPs was recorded at the Beach (37.2 +/- 6.9 MPs/Kg DW), while the lowest concentration was recorded in the Intertidal zone (1.1 +/- 0.9 MPs/Kg DW). In relation to the different shapes, Fragments and Pellets were more abundant on the Beach, while Fibers were more abundant in the Intertidal zone and barely any Sheets were found along the transect, suggesting a distribution probably governed not only by size but also morphology and perhaps chemical composition. A higher accumulation of particles was recorded in the first 10 cm of sediments, in comparison to the deepest 5 cm, indicating an increase of microplastics in the shallow marine sediments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Pennatulacean octocorals (sea pens), one of the primary conservation targets of the Laurentian Channel Marine Protected Area (MPA) in eastern Canada, occur at high densities in some deep-sea sedimentary habitats. Considered important habitat-forming organisms for many megafaunal organisms, the effect of sea pens on nearby sedimentary macrofaunal communities remains unexplored. During two cruises in September 2017 and July 2018, we sampled 9 stations within the MPA (336-445 m depth), including sea pen fields and bare sedimentary habitats, targeting individual sea pens in a subset of the cores to assess small-scale effects. We evaluated macrofaunal density, taxonomic diversity, vertical distribution, community composition, and biological trait expression, and investigated variation between sea pen fields and other (bare) sedimentary habitats, as well as between cores with and without sea pen specimens. Using multivariate analyses, we identified abiotic and biotic drivers of macrofaunal community composition and biological trait expression. Enhancement of macrofaunal density and taxonomic diversity and higher percentages of organisms in the upper sediment layers characterized sea pen fields in autumn, with more variable results in summer. Community composition and biological trait expression consistently differed in sea pen fields compared to bare sedimentary habitats, with Pennatula sea pen density as one of the primary drivers of variation especially for community composition, along with other environmental drivers (depth, grain size, and organic matter quantity and quality). We also detected small-scale enhancement of macrofaunal diversity in cores containing sea pens at stations characterized by predominantly bare sediments. Our results indicate that macrofaunal communities within sea pen fields differ from those in bare sediments and we propose sea pens play a role in influencing those patterns by increasing food availability, stability, and small-scale heterogeneity in sedimentary habitats, acknowledging that other environmental factors might also play a role in determining the observed patterns. Characteristics of macrofaunal communities within sea pen fields also suggested potentially higher sensitivity to disturbance, which amplifies the need for protection of sea pen fields in deep-sea sedimentary environments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Wild primates that live in urban areas face extreme threats that are less frequent in nonurban fragments, such as the presence of dangerous matrix elements (e.g., roads, power lines, buildings, and a high density of domestic dogs near food patches), that could influence their movements, feeding behavior, and survival. However, the scarcity of studies addressing this issue hinders our understanding of the behavioral adjustments that favor the survival of primates in urban areas. For 12 months, we studied a six-individual group of brown howlers (Alouatta guariba clamitans) in an urban fragment to determine (i) their diet richness and its relationships with food availability, (ii) their daily path length (DPL) and the matrix elements used during movement, and (iii) the main ecological drivers of the DPL. Sampling effort totaled 72 days, 787hr, and 3,224 instantaneous scans. We found that the diet of brown howlers contained 35 plant species (including seven cultivated crops) belonging to 33 genera and 21 families. The consumption of fruits and young leaves was directly related to their temporal availability. The average DPL (446m) was smaller than that reported for groups of howlers inhabiting large nonurban fragments. To move between food patches, animals used three main matrix elements: trees, power lines, and roofs. The number of plant species used during the day was the main driver of DPL. Our findings highlighted that the generalist-opportunistic diet of brown howlers and their ability to move across the anthropogenic matrix using artificial elements such as power lines, roofs, and wildlife crossings represent a remarkable part of their behavioral repertory in Lami. However, there are potential costs associated with these strategies, namely, electrocution and predation by domestic dogs. Thus, it is urgent to further investigate how these behaviors could affect the long-term survival of these animals. The brown howlers inhabited a highly disturbed area, and had a varied diet composed of 28 native plant species and 7 cultivated crops. The average daily path length (446m) was similar to that reported for groups inhabiting nonurban small fragments (544m), but smaller the than that reported for nonurban large fragments (658m). Animals used trees, power lines, and roofs to move between food patches and/or sleeping sites. The daily path length was mainly affected (directly) by the number of plant species used/day and, to a lesser extent, by the consumption of mature leaves. The potential costs associated with these behavioral strategies, namely, electrocution and predation by domestic dogs may be high in the long run."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Mitigating the impact of invasive species is a global conservation challenge, which requires an understanding of the factors that drive the distribution, abundance, and ecological interactions of invaders. Red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) are a widespread and abundant invasive omnivore in Australia. They are common in dunes and coastal areas that abut marine shorelines, which provide abundant food resources in the form of carrion. They are considered a key threatening process to Australia's biodiversity. The global literature posits that foxes use a broad mix of habitats, leading to an expectation of few consistent associations of foxes with landscape attributes and human uses of beaches and coastal dunes - this is the fundamental hypothesis tested here. Fox distribution was comprehensively mapped in Eastern Australia (108 km of shoreline, 192 sites, 6900 h of wildlife camera footage) and related (general additive models) to a range of potential drivers (e.g. topographic features, habitat types, urbanisation, connectivity, dogs, fox removal) on ocean beaches. Notwithstanding the catholic nature of red foxes elsewhere, here we show that habitat use by red foxes along ocean beaches is not indiscriminate: more foxes occur on beaches backed by high dunes and large expanses of natural vegetation. Conversely, significantly fewer foxes occur where natural dune habitats have been lost to urban areas. Fox removal did not affect fox distributions. Foxes are functionally important carnivores in coastal landscapes, and their disjunct distribution demonstrated by us suggests a spatially heterogeneous functional signal in coastal food-webs. More broadly, sandy beach ecosystems, interspersed by urban development, dominate many coasts, offering a rich bio-geographic tapestry to test how models of fox habitat choice articulate into invasive species management and food-web interactions. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V."	NonUS	Conservation
"Context. Rhinoptera steindachneri is the third-most abundant batoid species in the artisanal gillnet fishery of the Gulf of California, but there are limited age and growth data available for management. Aims. The aim was to estimate age and growth of this species from vertebral centra of 276 individuals. Methods. Two adjusted data sets were constructed on the basis of the birth and capture months and defining adequately the birth band. Individual growth was described through a multi-model approach and inference by using von Bertalanffy, Gompertz, and Logistic models (two and three parameters), and a two-phase growth model (four and five parameters). Key results. The model with the best fit to the size-at-age data was the two-phase model for both sexes (females: Dw(infinity )= 91.21 cm; k = 0.25 year(-1), Dw(infinity) = 46.2 cm; males: Dw(infinity) = 79.1 cm; k = 0.42 year(-1), Dw(infinity) = 45.5 cm). Maximum ages ranged from 9.92 to 10.75 years (female) and from 6.92 to 7.67 years (males). Maturity age was estimated in 3.92 years (females) and 3.72 years (males). Conclusions. Rhinoptera steindachneri is a batoid species with intermediate growth and a shorter lifespan than for confamilial species and even than species with similar reproductive traits. Implications. The need to carry out age validation studies for this species is highlighted."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Long-term monitoring is an important component of effective wildlife conservation. However, many methods for estimating density are too costly or difficult to implement over large spatial and temporal extents. Recently developed spatial mark-resight (SMR) models are increasingly being applied as a cost-effective method to estimate density when data include detections of both marked and unmarked individuals. We developed a generalized SMR model that can accommodate long-term camera data and auxiliary telemetry data for improved spatiotemporal inference in monitoring efforts. The model can be applied in two stages, with detection parameters estimated in the first stage using telemetry data and camera detections of instrumented individuals. Density is estimated in the second stage using camera data, with all individuals treated as unmarked. Serial correlation in detection and density parameters is accounted for using time-series models. The two-stage approach reduces computational demands and facilitates the application to large data sets from long-term monitoring initiatives. We applied the model to 3 years (2015-2017) of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) data collected in three study areas of the Big Cypress Basin, Florida, USA. In total, 59 females marked with ear tags and fitted with GPS-telemetry collars were detected along with unmarked females on 180 remote cameras. Most of the temporal variation in density was driven by seasonal fluctuations, but one study area exhibited a slight population decline during the monitoring period. Modern technologies such as camera traps provide novel possibilities for long-term monitoring, but the resulting massive data sets, which are subject to unique sources of observation error, have posed analytical challenges. The two-stage spatial mark-resight framework provides a solution with lower computational demands than joint SMR models, allowing for easier implementation in practice. In addition, after detection parameters have been estimated, the model may be used to estimate density even if no synchronous auxiliary information on marked individuals is available, which is often the case in long-term monitoring."	USA	Technology
"Background Traditional food systems are under pressure from various stressors, including climate change which is projected to negatively alter the abundance of marine species harvested by coastal First Nations (FNs) in British Columbia (BC). Objective To model the potential impacts of the climate-related declines in seafood production on the nutritional status of coastal BC FNs. In addition, we projected potential changes in nutrient intakes, under different scenarios of substitution where traditional seafood is replaced with alternative non-traditional foods. Methods The study design is a mixed-method approach that combines two datasets: projected scenarios of climate-related change on seafood catch potential for coastal BC FNs and data derived from the cross-sectional First Nations Food, Nutrition, and Environment Study. The consumption of seafood was estimated using a food frequency questionnaire among 356 FNs. The contribution of seafood consumption to protein, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), vitamins (A, B12, D, niacin), and minerals (zinc, selenium and iron) requirements was assessed using Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs). Results Traditional seafood consumption provided daily recommendations of EPA+DHA (74-184%) and vitamin B12 (84-152%) and substantial levels of niacin (28-55%), selenium (29-55%), vitamin D (15-30%) and protein (14-30%). Projected climate change was estimated to reduce the intakes of essential nutrients by 21% and 31% under 'strong mitigation' (Representative Concentration Pathway, RCP2.6) and 'business-as-usual' (RCP8.5) climate change scenarios, respectively, by the year 2050 relative to 2000. The hypothetical substitution of seafood with selected alternative non-traditional foods does not provide adequate amounts of nutrients. Conclusion Traditionally-harvested seafood remains fundamental to the contemporary diet and health of coastal BC FNs. Potential dietary shifts aggravated by climate-related declines in seafood consumption may have significant nutritional and health implications for BC FN. Strategies to improve access to seafood harvest potential in coastal communities are needed to ensure nutritional health and overall well-being and to promote food security and food sovereignty in coastal FNs."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Blue whales Balaenoptera musculus are the most abundant and widely distributed cetacean species in Sri Lankan waters. A vessel-based opportunistic line transect survey focusing on marine mammals was conducted in Sri Lankan waters between 24 June to 12 July 2018, while an ecosystem survey was performed by the R/V Dr. Fridtjof Nansen. The entire transect length was 2090 km within an area of 3895 km(2). Overall, 72% (n = 57) of blue whale observations were group assemblages ranging between 1 and 5 individuals out of a total of 79 sightings. The largest aggregations of blue whales were recorded at the intersection of the submarine canyon off the coastline of Mirissa and busy shipping lanes between Dondra Head and Galle, where previous ship strikes were recorded. Overall, the average observed group size was 2.64 (CV, 12.34%; 95% CI, 2.07-3.38), the average group density was 0.0029 km(-2) (CV, 35.96%; 95% CI, 0.00145-0.00610), and the total blue whale abundance within the survey area was 513 individuals (CV, 38.02%; 95% CI, 243-1083). These survey results fill vital knowledge gaps regarding the abundance and distribution of blue whales in Sri Lanka, which is essential for the establishment of management and conservation strategies."	NonUS	Conservation
"Spotlight surveys for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) can yield large presence-only datasets applicable to a variety of resource selection modeling procedures. By understanding how populations distribute according to a given resource for a reference area, density and abundance can be predicted across new areas assuming the relationship between habitat quality (measured by an index of selection) and species distribution are equivalent. Habitat-based density estimators have been applied to wildlife species and are useful for addressing conservation and management concerns. Although achieving reliable population estimates is a primary goal for spotlighting studies, presence-only models have yet to be applied to spotlight data for estimating habitat selection and abundance for deer. From 2012 to 2017, we conducted spring spotlight surveys in each of 99 counties in Iowa, USA, and collected spatial locations for 20,149 groups of deer (n = 71,323 individuals). We used a resource selection function (RSF) based on deer locations to predict the relative probability of use for deer at the population level and to estimate statewide abundance. The number of deer observed statewide increased significantly with increasing RSF value for all years and the mean RSF value along survey transects explained 59% of the variability in county-level deer counts, indicating that a functional response between habitat quality and deer distribution existed at landscape scales. We applied our RSF to a habitat-based density estimator (extrapolation) and zero-inflated Poisson (ZIP) and negative binomial (ZINB) count models to predict statewide abundance from spotlight counts. Population estimates for 2012 were variable, indicating that atypical weather conditions may affect spotlight counts and population estimates in some years. For 2013-2017, we predicted a mean population of 439,129 (95% CI similar to +/- 55,926), 440,360 (similar to +/- 43,676), and 465,959 (similar to +/- 51,242) deer across years for extrapolation, ZIP, and ZINB models, respectively. Estimates from all models were not significantly different than estimates from an existing deer population accounting model in Iowa for 2013 and 2016, and differed by <76,000 deer for all models from 2013-2017. Extrapolation and ZIP models performed similarly and differed by <2,897 deer across all years, whereas ZINB models showed inconsistencies in model convergence and precision of estimates. Our results indicate that presence-only models are capable of producing reliable and precise estimates of resource selection and abundance for deer at broad landscape scales in Iowa and provide a tool for estimating deer abundance in a spatially explicit manner. (c) 2019 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Conservation
"Wildlife conservation and management are critical issues that attract substantial attention. To develop a sustainable conservation project for the Kinmen Eurasian otter, the present study established a wildlife conservation framework and constructed a management program suitable for Kinmen Eurasian otter conservation based on the preferences of tourists and residents. The results of this study show that residents and tourists were not satisfied with the current status of Eurasian otter conservation in Kinmen and were willing to pay to change the status quo. Respondents preferred to maintain and artificially construct otter habitats, increase the otter population, limit traffic speed and establish underpasses, Kinmen Eurasian otter products, and educational parks. The findings of the market segmentation analysis divided respondents into two groups, passive conservationists and active conservationists. Both groups preferred protecting the Kinmen Eurasian otter to some extent. Passive conservationists, which included mostly residents and individuals with lower levels of education, lacked awareness of the Kinmen Eurasian otter and preferred to establish Kinmen Eurasian otter products and educational parks. Active conservationists were primarily tourists with higher levels of education who were familiar with the Kinmen Eurasian otter and had previously participated in Kinmen Eurasian otter conservation activities. These tourists preferred all conservation attributes and levels. Both groups of conservationists disliked the decline in the number of Eurasian otters in Kinmen. In addition to understanding respondents' preferences for conservation strategies, these findings reveal the importance of promoting education about the Kinmen Eurasian otter."	NonUS	Conservation
"This paper examines the agency of African elephants as important actors in the political ecology of human-elephant conflict, and in shaping the politics of land in post-colonial Kenya. The paper is based on field research in Laikipia, northern Kenya. It considers the role of elephants, with their size, sagacity, hunger, mobility and complex interactions with people, as powerful actors in shared landscapes, and therefore in the politics surrounding their own conservation. The paper uses spatial data and interviews to explore elephant behaviour and movements through the landscape and their interactions with people, and explore the way in which those interactions affect the separation of animal spaces set aside for conservation and the beastly places of smallholder farming and crop-raiding, and the conflict and transgressions involved when elephants cross from one to the other. The elephant is a lively actor in the inter-species power play of Laikipia, and in the politics of conservation and of land. A mutually respectful multispecies politics in northern Kenya demands a clear understanding and acceptance of the needs of elephants."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Recently, marine reserves have become a widely advocated approach to marine conservation. However, these studies beg the question as to how the selection imposed by harvesting and the dispersal rates between two patches influence stock abundance and the maximum fishery yield from the perspective of mathematical model. In this paper, a prey-predator model with selective harvesting by incorporating two discrete state delays in age and size for both the species in unreserve area has been established. Considering the resources exploitation and ecological observation, a hybrid optimal problem with Lagrange function and state delays together with characteristic times is formulated. We then develop an efficient numerical method by the lights of optimal state delay control method and Pontryagin-type minimum (maximum) principle. Finally, we discuss the impacts of selection for harvesting ages and efforts as well as migration coefficients on the fishery abundance and maximal yield by a series of simulations. Our results manifest: (1) after establishing protected areas, the oscillating amplitudes of prey and predator in unprotected areas are lessened and the stocks of predator in both areas are greatly enhanced with increasing of dispersal rates. (2) selective harvest tactics is appropriate for the strong intensity harvest in order to increase the abundance of all populations; (3) at the specific ages, optimal harvest efforts can enhance greatly fishery yield for the harvested population. However, the too late harvest for populations can reduce fishery sustainable yield, and this undesirable effects should be considered alongside harvest efforts when developing hunting regulations or policies; (4) the appropriate age selections will bring about the higher yield when the over-exploitation is implemented; (5) creating reserved areas only for preys greatly enhances fishery stocks and the sustainable yield than the other two patterns. However, setting reserved areas merely for the predator population is undesirable for increasing the fishery stock and yield. (C) 2018 International Association for Mathematics and Computers in Simulation (IMACS). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Fisheries
"We used open population, spatial capture-recapture (SCR) models to estimate sex-specific density, survival, per capita recruitment, and population growth rate of ocelots (Leopardus pardalis) at five sites in Belize with up to 12 yr of data per site. Open population SCR models enabled us to separate survival and recruitment from migration using an ecologically realistic, spatially explicit movement model. Yearly survival probability across 4 broadleaf forest sites was estimated at 0.73-0.84 for males and 0.81-0.87 for females, with no clear indication of sex differences. Yearly per capita recruitment was estimated across four broadleaf forest sites at 0.06-0.08 recruits/N for males and 0.09-0.12 recruits/N for females, again with no clear indication of sex differences. At a pine forest site with a population comprised largely of males, survival and recruitment estimates were similar to the broadleaf sites. Population densities in the broadleaf forest sites ranged from 6.5 to 14.7 ocelots/100 km(2), and 0.9-2.5 ocelots/100 km(2) in the pine forest site, with strong evidence of a female-biased sex ratio in the broadleaf sites and a male-biased sex ratio in the pine forest site. We also found strong evidence that female within-year space use at the broadleaf sites was smaller than that of males, and that within-year space use at the pine forest site was larger than that at broadleaf sites. Between-year home-range relocation at broadleaf sites was of a similar spatial scale as within-year space use, consistent with philopatry. We found evidence of a small population decline (posterior probability > 0.9) at two of four broadleaf sites; however, given the level of uncertainty about decline magnitudes, we suggest continued monitoring of these sites to increase site-years and gain further precision on population growth rate estimates. Estimating demographic parameters at large spatial and temporal scales is important for establishing reliable baseline estimates for future comparison and for understanding changes in population dynamics. Long-term data sets like those we collected are of particular importance for long-lived species living at low densities and large spatial scales, where not many individuals are exposed to capture in any one year."	USA	Ecology
"Although aquaria are common features of homes and other buildings, little is known about how environmental perturbations (i.e., tank cleaning, water changes, addition of habitat features) impact the diversity and succession of aquarium microbial communities. In this study, we sought to evaluate the hypotheses that newly established aquaria show clear microbial successional patterns over time and that common marine aquarium-conditioning practices, such as the addition of ocean-derived live rocks (defined as any dead coral skeleton covered with crustose coralline algae transferred into an aquarium from open ocean habitats) impact the diversity of microbial populations as well as nitrogen cycling in aquaria. We collected water chemistry data alongside water and sediment samples from two independent and newly established saltwater aquaria over a 3-month period. Microbial communities in samples were assessed by DNA extraction, amplification of the 16S rRNA gene, and lllumina MiSeq sequencing. Our results showed clear and replicable patterns of community succession in both aquaria, with the existence of multiple stable states for aquarium microbial assemblages. Notably, our results show that changes in aquarium microbial communities do not always correlate with water chemistry measurements and that operational taxonomic unit (OTU)-level patterns relevant to nitrogen cycling were not reported as statistically significant. Overall, our results demonstrate that aquarium perturbations have a substantial impact on microbial community profiles of aquarium water and sediment and that the addition of live rocks improves nutrient cycling by shifting aquarium communities toward a more typical saltwater assemblage of microbial taxa. IMPORTANCE Saltwater aquaria are living systems that support a complex biological community of fish, invertebrates, and microbes. The health and maintenance of saltwater tanks are pressing concerns for home hobbyists, zoos, and professionals in the aquarium trade; however, we do not yet understand the underlying microbial species interactions and community dynamics which contribute to tank setup and conditioning. This report provides a detailed view of ecological succession and changes in microbial community assemblages in two saltwater aquaria which were sampled over a 3-month period, from initial tank setup and conditioning with live rocks through subsequent tank cleanings and water replacement. Our results showed that microbial succession appeared to be consistent and replicable across both aquaria. However, changes in microbial communities did not always correlate with water chemistry measurements, and aquarium microbial communities appear to have shifted among multiple stable states without any obvious buildup of undesirable nitrogen compounds in the tank environment."	USA	Ecology
"Context. Many threatened species persist in modified landscapes. Species in these landscapes often inhabit vegetation strips adjacent to linear structures such as roads, railways and artificial waterways. These vegetation strips may act as refugia or provide resources, but the associated structures (e.g. roads) may also act as barriers to movement. The southern brown bandicoot (eastern subspecies) is listed as Endangered in Australia and is known to inhabit modified landscapes. Aim. We aim to determine the extent of occupancy of southern brown bandicoots and the relative importance of different habitat types. Our data are intended to provide a baseline for future monitoring of changes to bandicoot populations, and to further our understanding of the relative importance of different habitat types for management and conservation. Methods. We conducted a remote-camera survey of southern brown bandicoots, at 98 locations across a 60 000 ha region south-east of Melbourne. Bandicoots in this area inhabit patches of remnant habitat in reserves and remnant, modified or non-native vegetation strips along roadsides and artificial waterways created in the 19th century to drain swampland. These habitat fragments sit within a matrix of agricultural, residential and commercial land. Key results. Our results suggest that bandicoot occupancy is higher along artificial waterways (0.76) than along roadsides (0.35) or within reserves (0.39). Implications. Habitat along waterways is often different from remnants, with a mix of weedy and native vegetation. The implication of this is a potential conflict between habitat and vegetation management for bandicoots, weed control and maintenance of drains and associated levees."	NonUS	Conservation
"Invasive fire ants prey on a variety of organisms in the southeastern USA, including the pipped eggs and hatchlings within sea turtle nests. The granular fire ant bait AMDRO (R) (active ingredient hydramethylnon) is currently used at some rookeries to protect nests, but no studies have been conducted to determine if the pesticide negatively impacts the eggs or the hatchlings. We examined the pesticide's effect on loggerhead (Caretta caretta) nests at Juno Beach, Florida, USA, specifically targeting how exposure affected hatching success, hatchling emergence success, and the ability of the turtles to orient visually from the nest to the sea. Pesticide granules were placed within a 30 cm diameter circle on the sand directly above the nest during the final 5-10 days of incubation, representative of its typical application at nesting beaches. Cornmeal granules in soybean oil and untreated natural nests served as controls. AMDRO had no significant effect on hatching success or emergence success, nor did it result in any deficiencies in hatchling orientation accuracy. However, the pesticide and cornmeal control attracted other predators (Atlantic ghost crabs and avian species), in addition to fire ants, to the nest site, thus revealing the nest's location and potentially increasing its vulnerability. Consequently, we suggest that its usage may not be beneficial at sites where predators other than ants are especially abundant."	USA	Conservation
"Despite recent advances in metagenomics, increasing our understanding of sediment microbial communities remains a challenge because of their remarkable diversity. In this chapter we describe various strategies for the analysis of metagenomes from complex microbial communities, using a sequence dataset of coastal sediments from Antarctic and sub-Antarctic sheltered environments as a case study. Microbial diversity and community structure were analysed by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, and shotgun sequencing was used to unveil key metabolic processes at multiple levels. The phylogenetic analysis of biomarker genes (nitrogen cycle, anaerobic hydrocarbon biodegradation) allowed us to shed light on the structure of environmentally relevant, yet low-abundance microbial populations. Gene content and shared synteny in brown algae polysaccharide utilization loci provided evidence on the evolution of a relevant process for coastal carbon cycling. The statistical analysis of putative microbial rhodopsin sequences showed two levels of phylogeographical segregation, providing evidence on the evolutionary origin of viral sequences. Finally, a workflow was designed for the rational selection of metagenomic sequences encoding enzymes with promising biotechnological features. Each of these analyses provided a glimpse into the biology, ecology and biotechnological potential of these microbial communities, overcoming limitations in coverage and assembly of metagenomes from high-complexity communities."	NonUS	Technology
"Bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) are abundant in many coastal ecosystems, including the coastal Everglades. Understanding spatial and temporal variation in their abundance and group sizes is important for estimating their potential ecological importance and predicting how environmental changes (e.g. ecosystem restoration) might impact their populations. From August 2010 to June 2012, we completed a total of 67 belt transects covering a total of 2650 linear km and an area of 1232 km(2). Dolphin densities varied spatially and temporally. The highest densities of dolphins were found in coastal oceans and inland bays and were lowest in rivers. Use of rivers, however, increased during the dry season while densities in other habitats remained similar across seasons. Dolphins appeared to prefer portions of bays close to mangrove-covered islands over open waters. A resighting rate of 63.6% of individuals across the 2-year study suggests that at least a portion of the population is probably resident within study regions over long time periods. The largest groups (mean 6.28, range 1-31) were found in open waters and bays despite apparently low predation pressure. Indeed, shark bite scars - likely the result of unsuccessful predation attempts - were conclusively observed on only 1% of individuals. Although further studies are warranted, the high densities of dolphins suggest that they are an important upper trophic level predator in the coastal Everglades, but their ecological importance probably varies in space and time."	USA	Ecology
"Organisms across the tree of life have complex life cycles that include both sexual and asexual reproduction or that are obligately asexual. These organisms include ecologically dominant species that structure many terrestrial and marine ecosystems, as well as many pathogens, pests, and invasive species. We must consider both the evolution and maintenance of these various reproductive modes and how these modes shape the genetic diversity, adaptive evolution, and ability to persist in the species that exhibit them. Thus, having a common framework is a key aspect of understanding the biodiversity that shapes our planet. In the 2019 AGA President's Symposium, Sex and Asex: The genetics of complex life cycles, researchers investigating a wide range of taxonomic models and using a variety of modes of investigation coalesced around a common theme-understanding not only how such complex life cycles may evolve, but how they are shaped by the evolutionary and ecological forces around them. In this introduction to the Special Issue from the symposium, we give an overview of some of the key ideas and areas of investigation (a common clonal lexicon, we might say) and introduce the breadth of work submitted by symposium participants."	USA	Genetics
"Tropical deforestation is considered a global priority due to its environmental, social, and economic impacts at international, national, and household levels. Conservation policies constitute one of the pathways to reverse this scenario. This paper examines the influence of forest protection measures on local communities' livelihood decisions regarding forest clearing. It compares deforestation, access to forest resources, and households' strategies in protected and open-access forests: the Moribane Forest Reserve (MFR) and Serra Choa (SCH), two environmentally sensitive areas with different conservation statuses in Manica Province, central Mozambique. Socioeconomic data were collected from September 2019 to August 2020 in 149 households in MFR and 144 households in SCH. The data were cross-examined with spatial information on deforestation from 2000 to 2020. We found that conservation status impacted household strategies, leading to less income source diversification and limited commercialization of forest products. In both areas, most respondents declared unlimited access to forest resources (89.9% for MFR and 68.8% for SCH), and the remaining proportion of respondents pointed out conservation, private forest, distance, and wildlife conflict as reasons for limited access. Shifting agriculture is the unique income source for 75.2% of the families in MFR and 28.4% in SCH. Most households in SCH diversify their income by combining shifting agriculture and livestock (68.75% against 24.8% in MFR). About 97% of the sampled households in MFR cleared forest for agriculture during the period 2000-2020, while 55.6% of the households cleared the forest in SCH during the same period. In MFR, non-timber forest products are mainly for subsistence use, except honey, which is sold by 52.2% of families. In SCH, commercialization of non-timber forest products is more diverse, with 11.1% of families selling honey, bush meat (5.5%), charcoal (3.4%), medicinal plants (2%), wood (1.3%), poles (11.1%), and firewood (12.5%). We conclude that the current conservation policies have little impact on household decisions to protect the forest, but they influence income diversification, leading to more dependency on agriculture and livestock."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Recent years have seen an emergence of the field of comparative cancer genomics. However, the advancements in this field are held back by the hesitation to use knowledge obtained from human studies to study cancer in other animals, and vice versa. Since cancer is an ancient disease that arose with multicellularity, oncogenes and tumour-suppressor genes are amongst the oldest gene classes, shared by most animal species. Acknowledging that other animals are, in terms of cancer genetics, ecology, and evolution, rather similar to humans, creates huge potential for advancing the fields of human and animal oncology, but also biodiversity conservation."	NonUS	Genetics
"Background Prioritizing groupings of organisms or 'units' below the species level is a critical issue for conservation purposes. Several techniques encompassing different time-frames, from genetics to ecological markers, have been considered to evaluate existing biological diversity at a sufficient temporal resolution to define conservation units. Given that acoustic signals are expressions of phenotypic diversity, their analysis may provide crucial information on current differentiation patterns within species. Here, we tested whether differences previously delineated within dolphin species based on i) geographic isolation, ii) genetics regardless isolation, and iii) habitat, regardless isolation and genetics, can be detected through acoustic monitoring. Recordings collected from 104 acoustic encounters of Stenella coeruleoalba, Delphinus delphis and Tursiops truncatus in the Azores, Canary Islands, the Alboran Sea and the Western Mediterranean basin between 1996 and 2012 were analyzed. The acoustic structure of communication signals was evaluated by analyzing parameters of whistles in relation to the known genetic and habitat-driven population structure. Results Recordings from the Atlantic and Mediterranean were accurately assigned to their respective basins of origin through Discriminant Function Analysis, with a minimum 83.8% and a maximum 93.8% classification rate. A parallel pattern between divergence in acoustic features and in the genetic and ecological traits within the basins was highlighted through Random Forest analysis. Although it is not yet possible to establish a causal link between each driver and acoustic differences between basins, we showed that signal variation reflects fine-scale diversity and may be used as a proxy for recognizing discrete units. Conclusion We recommend that acoustic analysis be included in assessments of delphinid population structure, together with genetics and ecological tracer analysis. This cost-efficient non-invasive method can be applied to uncover distinctiveness and local adaptation in other wide-ranging marine species."	NonUS	Conservation
"The ecological adaptations that stimulated the dispersal and technological strategies of our species during the Late Pleistocene remain hotly disputed, with some influential theories focusing on grassland biomes or marine resources as key drivers behind the rapid expansion and material culture innovations of Homo sapiens within and beyond Africa. Here, we present novel chronologically resolved, zooarchaeological taxonomic and taphonomic analysis, and stable isotope analysis of human and faunal tooth enamel, from the site of Panga ya Saidi (c. 78-0.4 ka), Kenya. Zooarchaeological data provide rare insights into the fauna associated with, and utilized by, Late Pleistocene-Holocene human populations in tropical coastal eastern Africa. Combined zooarchaeological and faunal stable isotope data provide some of the only dated, 'on-site' archives of palaeoenvironments beyond the arid interior of eastern Africa for this time period, while stable isotope analysis of humans provides direct snapshots of the dietary reliance of foragers at the site. Results demonstrate that humans consistently utilized tropical forest and grassland biomes throughout the period of site occupation, through a transition from Middle Stone Age to Later Stone Age technological industries and the arrival of agriculture in the region. By contrast, while coastal resources were obtained for use in symbolic material culture, there is limited evidence for consumption of marine resources until the Holocene. We argue that the ecotonal or heterogeneous environments of coastal eastern Africa may have represented an important refugium for populations during the increasing climatic variability of the Late Pleistocene and Holocene, and that tropical environments were one of a diverse series of ecosystems exploited by H. sapiens in Africa at the dawn of global migrations."	NonUS	Ecology
"A positive relationship between cell size and chloroplast genome size within chloroplast-bearing protists has been hypothesized in the past and shown in some case studies, but other factors influencing chloroplast genome size during the evolution of chlorophyte algae have been less studied. We study chloroplast genome size and GC content as a function of habitats and cell size of chlorophyte algae. The chloroplast genome size of green algae in freshwater, marine and terrestrial habitats was differed significantly, with terrestrial algae having larger chloroplast genome sizes in general. The most important contributor to these enlarged genomes in terrestrial species was the length of intergenic regions. There was no clear difference in the GC content of chloroplast genomes from the three habitats categories. Functional morphological categories also showed differences in chloroplast genome size, with filamentous algae having substantially larger genomes than other forms of algae, and foliose algae had lower GC content than other groups. Chloroplast genome size showed no significant differences among the classes Ulvophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae, and Chlorophyceae, but the GC content of Chlorophyceae chloroplast genomes was significantly lower than that of Ulvophyceae and Trebouxiophyceae. There was a certain positive relationship between chloroplast genome size and cell size for the Chlorophyta as a whole and within each of three major classes. Our data also confirmed previous reports that ancestral quadripartite architecture had been lost many times independently in Chlorophyta. Finally, the comparison of the phenotype of chlorophytes algae harboring plastids uncovered that most of the investigated Chlorophyta algae housed a single plastid per cell."	NonUS	Genetics
"The current global decline of insects will have profound cascading effects as insects serve numerous roles in ecosystems. Effective but simple methods are needed to describe spatial and temporal distribution of flying insects in detail. This applies especially to important but short-lived phenomena such as insect swarms. We developed, tested and implemented a non-invasive unbiased method with camera transects to measure spatio-temporal fluctuations in the abundance of nocturnal flying insects in different habitats. To test the sensitivity of the method, we then tested for the influence of environmental factors on this abundance. Our results show that the method is useful for the temporal and spatial comparison of insect abundances. Astonishingly, over 90% of the 63,180 photos lacked insects. We found profound differences in insect abundance and dynamic changes between the studied habitats. Photos with a large number of insects were rare, but occurred predominantly during the warmest period (June/July) and shortly after sunset. Our findings emphasize the importance of quantifying the dynamics of flying insects at a high spatio-temporal resolution. This method can be expanded to monitor long- and short-term changes in nocturnal insect abundance even at continental scales. With proper development, the camera transects we describe could be used for insect monitoring similar to the way camera traps are used to monitor terrestrial vertebrate populations, and could become an important tool for addressing the current mass disappearances of insects."	NonUS	Ecology
"On the whole, the stability of ships is an important factor affecting ocean navigation. Meanwhile, the measurement of tolerance technology is closely related to the CNC machining of ships' molds. Based on the Marine propulsion system, this paper explores the numerical control machining of Marine molds. In this paper, the relationship between the covering parts mould processing overburden and the characteristics of the covering parts vibration of the shafting under the action of tolerance measurement is studied by theoretical calculation and experimental method."	NonUS	Technology
"Indigenous communities on the Pribilof Islands have longstanding cultural and economic ties to their marine ecosystem and, in particular, to laaqudan (in Unangam Tunuu) or northern fur seals (NFS; Callorhinus ursinus). Indigenous and Local Knowledge holders from the Pribilof Islands have long expressed concerns about declines in NFS abundance, and research increasingly suggests that nutritional limitation is a key factor in the decline. Using a co-production of knowledge approach, we explore perceptions of NFS ecology and commercial fishery interactions in the Pribilof Islands Marine Ecosystem (PRIME). We synthesize results from community surveys and analyses of commercial pollock (Gad us chalcogrammus) fishery catch data from 2004-2018 relative to documented NFS foraging areas. Community survey results highlighted ecosystem changes and nutritional limitation as primary drivers of recent declines in Pribilof Islands NFS. Consistent with these results, pollock catch data indicate there are concentrated areas of pollock harvest over time near the Pribilof Islands where female NFS forage. These results reinforce the value of considering Indigenous and Local Knowledge and western science together to better understand ecosystem interactions. Our findings also support the consideration of Indigenous and Local Knowledge-based approaches in combination with spatiotemporal management to mitigate NFS nutritional limitation and Pribilof Islands NFS declines."	USA	Fisheries
"Seagrass meadows are highly productive habitats that support commercially and ecologically important fishes and invertebrates. However, evidence of fish-habitat relationships are seldom drawn from forereef seagrass meadows that are structurally simple in terms of species richness and relative size and, consequently, their role as habitats is unclear. In this study, fish-habitat relationships were examined in such meadows in the forereef seagrasses of Tinggi Island and Babi Besar Island, Malaysia, by documenting habitat complexity attributes (canopy height, shoot density and percent cover), distance to adjacent coral reefs, and water depth within 2 x 2 m quadrats. Fish assemblages were recorded using the Remote Underwater Video Station method. A total of 1166 individuals from 86 taxa were found and enumerated. This study showed that (1) fish density and species richness were significantly associated with seagrass percent cover alone; (2) commercially important carnivores formed the majority of the fish populations in the meadows, and (3) fish density and species richness were positively correlated with distance to the nearest adjacent coral reef, indicating the need to account for the effects of neighboring habitats in studies of this nature. Thus, structurally simple seagrass meadows are still important fish habitats, especially as feeding grounds for commercially significant carnivores."	NonUS	Ecology
"Answers are still being sought to the question of how to plan cities to ensure good living conditions for humans while also protecting urban biodiversity. We asked what is the minimum city size that causes the depletion of wildlife biodiversity, and how quickly does this process develop? We summarized data for wild ground-dwelling small mammals (Rodentia and Soricomorpha) living in green areas in cities/settlements of sizes from 1.3 thousand to 1.7 million inhabitants (Poland, Central Europe) and used various statistical tools to explore this issue. Our models indicate that the explicit transformation and depletion of ground-dwelling fauna occurs in cities with a density higher than 1000 people/km(2) (20,000 inhabitants, area of 20 km(2)). We estimated species richness and the rate of diversity decline as a city grows. Our findings indicate that in order to preserve the relatively high biodiversity of native wildlife in cities (even in central areas) appropriate actions should be taken in the early stages of city development. This knowledge may facilitate the design of more sustainable cities and could be particularly useful for the promotion of the implementation of appropriate urban policies for smaller cities. Nowadays, the theory of sustainable design of small cities is still insufficient."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Coarse woody debris (CWD) is a structural feature in forests throughout the United States that provides unique cover, runways, and microclimate for various wildlife species. While use and selection of CWD for rodent foraging, travel, and nesting, which can impact an individual's fitness, has been demonstrated across numerous studies, the role of CWD presence and abundance in rodent population and community dynamics varies across studies. To better understand rodent and CWD relationships, we studied rodent populations across two periods of CWD manipulation in randomly assigned experimental treatments in South Carolina (Period I: March 1996-November 2000; removal of all snags and fallen logs, removal of fallen logs only, and Control, and Period II: January 2002-September 2006; downed woody debris addition, snag addition, and Control). Overall, we found minimal effects of experimental treatments on the rodent community composition and structure, and community level variation was mainly explained by cotton mouse (Peromyscus gossypinus) and southern flying squirrel (Glaucomys volans) captures. There were no experimental treatment effects on captures of cotton mice and southern flying squirrels, but we observed variation across seasons and years. Our study shows that over the long-term, rodent population and community dynamics are not affected by experimental manipulations of CWD in our study area."	USA	Ecology
"Study Objectives: Raptors are species playing a role in critical ecological functions, supporting human societies as the bio indicator of environmental health, and tending to be extinct. Human factors affect the entire ecosystem as well as raptors. The aim of this study was to determine why raptors were brought to a wildlife center in Turkey and to detect outcomes. In this study, records of 348 raptors within -Falconiformes and Strigiformes orders admitted to a wildlife rehabilitation center between 2017-2020 were studied. Methods: In this study, we analyzed raptors by taking the following factors into account: year of admission; order (Falconiformes or Strigiformes); species; season; cause of admission; type of landscape; hunting season or not; raptor outcomes. The relationships between variables were determined by the Chi-Square test. The statistical significance level was taken as 0.05. Results: According to the results of this study, the increase in the number of raptors affected by threats over the years was considered significant (p<0.01). One of the anthropogenic based threats; trauma was considered carrying the highest risk (40.2%) in both orders while the second one was detected as a condition disorder. The third one was firearms injuries for Falconiformes (14.2%) and orphans (22%) for Strigiformes. Wintering season has been full of threats for both orders (p<0.01). While Falconiformes faced more threats in suburban areas (p<0.01), the locality was found to be insignificant in Strigiformes based on threats (p>0.05). The relation between threats and outcomes in Falconiformes was found highly important (p<0.01) and the highest mortality rate was stated as 75.6% by firearms injuries and the release rate 86.2% for the orphan. A crucial relation was detected between hunting season and threats (p<0.01) and gun shooting injuries were found the highest for both orders during this period. Conclusion: It was concluded that threats from human interaction on Raptors in Turkey are at a serious level."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The interface between humans, domestic animals, and wildlife has been implicated in the emergence of infectious diseases and the persistence of endemic human and animal diseases. For individuals who reside at this interface, particularly those in low-resource settings, the development of disease risk assessment and mitigation skills must be prioritized. Using a community engagement-One Health approach, we implemented a training program aimed at advancing these skills among agro-pastoralists living adjacent to conservation areas in South Africa. The program included professional development of local facilitators who then conducted workshops with community members. Workshops used a series of experiential, inquiry-based activities to teach participants the concepts of pathogen transmission and disease risk assessment and mitigation. The program was implemented over four weeks with 10 facilitators and 78 workshop participants. We conducted a within-subjects experimental study using a mixed methods design to evaluate the program in terms of facilitator and participant One Health knowledge and practices. Quantitative data included pre/post written assessments; qualitative data included focus group discussions, semi-structured interviews, and pre/post photographs. Mean post-test scores of facilitators increased by 17% (p=0.0078). For workshop participants, improvements in knowledge were more likely for females than males (OR = 7.315, 95% CI = 2.258-23.705, p=0.0009) and participants with a higher versus lower education level, albeit borderline non-significant (OR = 4.781, 95% CI = 0.942-24.264, p=0.0590). Qualitative analysis revealed the implementation of risk mitigation strategies by 98% (60/61) of workshop participants during the three-month follow-up and included improved personal and domestic hygiene practices and enhanced animal housing. Although further evaluation is recommended, this program may be appropriate for consideration as a scalable approach by which to mitigate human and animal infectious disease risk in high-risk/low-resource communities."	USA	HumanWildlife
"We report the semi-terrestrial shrimp Merguia oligodon (De Man, 1888) (Merguiidae Christofferson, 1987) from surveys of the mangrove forests fringing Taklong Island, Guimaras, Western Visayas, Philippines. This remarkable species is capable of walking and even jumping on dry land. We found that the Taklong Island population is fully nocturnal, and during night-time low tides the shrimp are found in small aggregations under logs well above the water line, while during night-time high tides they occur singly just above the water line or about a centimeter below the water surface. Observations of sexual characters indicate that M. oligodon is likely a protandric hermaphrodite, which has implications for the probable ancestral condition in caridean shrimps. Live color patterns appear to change ontogenetically and are not identical with other reported populations elsewhere in the Indo-West Pacific. The mangroves of Taklong Island were heavily impacted by the 2006 M/T Solar I oil spill, and the presence of M. oligodon in this mangrove forest is a sign of recovery from the effects of the bunker-oil spill."	NonUS	Ecology
"The effects of changing hydrological and climatic conditions on the dynamics of phosphorus (P) were studied in the Northern Adriatic Sea (NA), a coastal system currently affected by these changes. P limitation is one of the key stresses in the NA and it is a globally important phenomenon in aquatic ecosystems. Therefore, the response to P stress by inducing alkaline phosphatase activity (APA) was studied in characteristic water types in the NA, formed by the changing freshwater input in different thermic conditions. APA was important in providing P for microbial growth in upper waters dominated by assimilation during the warmer part of the year in stratified conditions. Contrarily, APA was not important during mixing in the colder part of the year, as well as in waters dominated by regeneration. In waters influenced by freshwater, temperature had no effect on APA, while in high-salinity waters, temperature was an important factor for APA increase. The highest APA occurred during riverine nutrients supply, indicating that the alteration of anthropogenic nutrient loads might strongly change P status in this coastal system. Furthermore, predicted increases in winter sea temperature and summer Po River discharge could delay the water column mixing, prolonging periods of P limitation."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Mineral exploitation has spread from land to shallow coastal waters and is now planned for the offshore, deep seabed. Large seafloor areas are being approved for exploration for seafloor mineral deposits, creating an urgent need for regional environmental management plans. Networks of areas where mining and mining impacts are prohibited are key elements of these plans. We adapt marine reserve design principles to the distinctive biophysical environment of mid-ocean ridges, offer a framework for design and evaluation of these networks to support conservation of benthic ecosystems on mid-ocean ridges, and introduce projected climate-induced changes in the deep sea to the evaluation of reserve design. We enumerate a suite of metrics to measure network performance against conservation targets and network design criteria promulgated by the Convention on Biological Diversity. We apply these metrics to network scenarios on the northern and equatorial Mid-Atlantic Ridge, where contractors are exploring for seafloor massive sulfide (SMS) deposits. A latitudinally distributed network of areas performs well at (i) capturing ecologically important areas and 30 to 50% of the spreading ridge areas, (ii) replicating representative areas, (iii) maintaining along-ridge population connectivity, and (iv) protecting areas potentially less affected by climate-related changes. Critically, the network design is adaptive, allowing for refinement based on new knowledge and the location of mining sites, provided that design principles and conservation targets are maintained. This framework can be applied along the global mid-ocean ridge system as a precautionary measure to protect biodiversity and ecosystem function from impacts of SMS mining."	USA	Conservation
"Tracking devices are increasingly used to monitor individual movement patterns continuously and in high resolution. However, carrying a device could potentially compromise an individual's physiology or behaviour, thereby making tracking data unreliable for detailed behavioural measurements. To this end, we assessed the possible consequences of the application of GPS devices on offspring development in an opportunistic seabird species, the lesser black-backed gull (Larus fuscus), by comparing the growth and survival of nestlings of which none, one or both parents were equipped with a GPS device. We found that the developmental trajectories of the nestlings were not affected, and there were no differences in skeletal size and body mass at the fledging stage. A lack of negative effects on offspring development strongly suggests that the parental behaviour, and thus likely the foraging behaviour, did not differ between tagged and non-tagged individuals. The evidence that GPS data can be used to reliably study parental care, as well as other aspects of the bird's behaviour, opens up new possibilities to study behavioural and evolutionary ecological questions in ever-increasing resolution."	NonUS	Technology
"Mass mortality events are increasing in frequency and magnitude, potentially linked with ongoing climate change. In October 2016 through January 2017, St. Paul Island, Bering Sea, Alaska, experienced a mortality event of alcids (family: Alcidae), with over 350 carcasses recovered. Almost three-quarters of the carcasses were unscavenged, a rate much higher than in baseline surveys (17%), suggesting ongoing deposition and elevated mortality around St Paul over a 2-3 month period. Based on the observation that carcasses were not observed on the neighboring island of St. George, we bounded the at-sea distribution of moribund birds, and estimated all species mortality at 3,150 to 8,800 birds. The event was particularly anomalous given the late fall/ winter timing when low numbers of beached birds are typical. In addition, the predominance of Tufted puffins (Fratercula cirrhata, 79% of carcass finds) and Crested auklets (Aethia cristatella, 11% of carcass finds) was unusual, as these species are nearly absent from long-term baseline surveys. Collected specimens were severely emaciated, suggesting starvation as the ultimate cause of mortality. The majority (95%, N = 245) of Tufted puffins were adults regrowing flight feathers, indicating a potential contribution of molt stress. Immediately prior to this event, shifts in zooplankton community composition and in forage fish distribution and energy density were documented in the eastern Bering Sea following a period of elevated sea surface temperatures, evidence cumulatively suggestive of a bottom-up shift in seabird prey availability. We posit that shifts in prey composition and/ or distribution, combined with the onset of molt, resulted in this mortality event."	USA	ClimateChange
"Atlantic tarpon (Megalops atlanticus, hereafter tarpon) are facing a multitude of stressors and are considered Vulnerable by the IUCN; however, significant gaps remain in our understanding of tarpon space use and movement. From 2018 to 2019, citizen scientists facilitated tagging of 23 tarpon with SPOT tags to examine space use and movement across the northern Gulf of Mexico. Movement-based kernel densities were used to estimate simplified biased random bridge-based utilization distributions and a joint move persistence model was used to estimate a behavioral index for each fish. Tarpon showed consistent east-west movement from the Alabama/Florida border to Louisiana, and utilization distributions were highest in the Mississippi River Delta. Move persistence was highest in Alabama and Mississippi and lowest in Louisiana. Our examination of tarpon space use and movement indicates that Louisiana is a critical, yet understudied, part of their range."	USA	Fisheries
"Large carnivores often impact human livelihoods and well-being. Previous research has mostly focused on the negative impacts of large carnivores on human well-being but has rarely considered the positive aspects of living with large carnivores. In particular, we know very little on people's direct experiences with large carnivores like personal encounters and on people's awareness and tolerance toward their exposure to large carnivores. Here, we focus on the wolf (Canis lupus), and report on a phone survey in Germany. We examined whether encounters with wolves were positive or negative experiences and quantified people's awareness and tolerance related to their exposure to wolves. We found that the majority of people reported positive experiences when encountering wolves, regardless of whether wolves were encountered in the wild within Germany, in the wild abroad, or in captivity. The frequency of encounters did not affect the probability to report positive, neutral, or negative experiences. Moreover, people in Germany expressed a high tolerance of living in close vicinity to wolves. These findings are novel and important because they highlight the positive aspects of living in proximity with large carnivores in human-dominated landscapes."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Background and Aims In plants, the spatial and genetic distance between mates can influence reproductive success and offspring fitness. Negative fitness consequences associated with the extremes of inbreeding and outbreeding suggest that there will be an intermediate optimal outcrossing distance (OOD), the scale and drivers of which remain poorly understood. In the bird-pollinated Anigozanthos manglesii (Haemodoraceae) we tested (1) for the presence of within-population OOD, (2) over what scale it occurs, and (3) for OOD under biologically realistic scenarios of multi-donor deposition associated with pollination by nectar-feeding birds. Methods We measured the impact of mate distance (spatial and genetic) on seed set, fruit size, seed mass, seed viability and germination success following hand pollination from (1) single donors across 0 m (self), <1 m, 1-3 m, 7-15 m and 50 m, and (2) a mix of eight donors. Microsatellite loci were used to quantify spatial genetic structure and test for the presence of an OOD by paternity assignment after multi-donor deposition. Key results Inter-mate distance had a significant impact on single-donor reproductive success, with selfed and nearest-neighbour (<1 m) pollination resulting in only similar to 50 seeds per fruit, lower overall germination success and slower germination. Seed set was greatest for inter-mate distance of 1-3 m (148 seeds per fruit), thereafter plateauing at similar to 100 seeds per fruit. Lower seed set following nearest-neighbour mating was associated with significant spatial genetic autocorrelation at this scale. Paternal success following pollination with multiple sires showed a significantly negative association with increasing distance between mates. Conclusions Collectively, single- and multi-donor pollinations indicated evidence for a near-neighbour OOD within A. manglesii. A survey of the literature suggests that within-population OOD may be more characteristic of plants pollinated by birds than those pollinated by insects."	NonUS	Genetics
"Competition between apex predators can alter the strength of top-down forcing, yet we know little about the behavioral mechanisms that drive competition in multipredator ecosystems. Interactions between predators can be synergistic (facilitative) or antagonistic (inhibitive), both of which are widespread in nature, vary in strength between species and across space and time, and affect predation patterns and predator-prey dynamics. Recent research has suggested that gray wolf (Canis lupus) kill rates decrease where they are sympatric with brown bears (Ursus arctos), however, the mechanisms behind this pattern remain unknown. We used data from two long-term research projects in Scandinavia (Europe) and Yellowstone National Park (North America) to test the role of interference and exploitation competition from bears on wolf predatory behavior, where altered wolf handling and search time of prey in the presence of bears are indicative of interference and exploitation competition, respectively. Our results suggest the mechanisms driving competition between bears and wolves were dependent on the season and study system. During spring in Scandinavia, interference competition was the primary mechanism driving decreased kill rates for wolves sympatric with bears; handling time increased, but search time did not. In summer, however, when both bear and wolf predation focused on neonate moose, the behavioral mechanism switched to exploitation competition; search time increased, but handling time did not. Alternartively, interference competition did affect wolf predation dynamics in Yellowstone during summer, where wolves prey more evenly on neonate and adult ungulates. Here, bear presence at a carcass increased the amount of time wolves spent at carcasses of all sizes and wolf handling time for small prey, but decreased handling time for the largest prey. Wolves facilitate scavenging opportunities for bears, however, bears alter wolf predatory behavior via multiple pathways and are primarily antagonistic to wolves. Our study helps to clarify the behavioral mechanisms driving competition between apex predators, illustrating how interspecific interactions can manifest into population-level predation patterns."	NonUS	Ecology
"Human-induced changes to environments are causing species declines. Beyond preserving habitat (in situ), insurance (ex situ) populations are essential to prevent species extinctions. The Conservation Centers for Species Survival (C2S2) is leveraging space of breeding centers and private ranches to produce source populations-genetically diverse reservoirs that also support research and reintroductions. The initial focus is on four African antelopes. C2S2 has developed a program, the Source Population Alliance, that emphasizes animals living in spacious, naturalistic conditions in greater numbers than can be accommodated by urban zoos. Simulation modeling demonstrates how herds can rapidly increase population abundance and retain genetic diversity. Advances in genomics and resulting DNA data allow monitoring of genetic diversity and parentage as well as refined decision-making. This approach, neither pure in situ nor ex situ, but rather sorta situ, is an innovative way of linking public and private sector resources to ensure that endangered species survive."	USA	Conservation
"In coastal systems, marine-protected areas (MPAs) have been shown to increase the diversity, abundance, and biomass of wildlife assemblages as well as their resilience to climate change. The effectiveness of pelagic MPAs is less clear, with arguments against their establishment typically based on the highly mobile nature of pelagic taxa. We used mid-water stereo-baited remote underwater video systems (stereo-BRUVS) and spatial predictive models to characterize the pelagic wildlife assemblage at the head of the Perth Canyon, one of the largest submarine canyons in Australia, over a 7-yr period (2013-2019). The total number of unique taxa and mean values of taxonomic richness, abundance, fork length, and biomass demonstrated strong interannual stability, although mean taxonomic richness and abundance were significantly lower in 2018 relative to other years. Seasonal variability was absent in 2016, but in 2018, taxonomic richness and abundance were three times greater in the Austral spring than in the autumn. Some mobile megafauna were only recorded at the Perth Canyon Marine Park (PCMP) in the autumn, suggesting a seasonal component to their occurrence. The fine-scale distribution of pelagic taxa at the canyon head was largely stable over time, with many areas of higher relative probability of presence located outside protected zones. Despite a degree of variability that may relate to the effect of the El Nino Southern Oscillation on the Leeuwin Current, the PCMP assemblage demonstrates a relatively high degree of spatiotemporal stability. Stronger protection of the PCMP (IUCN II or higher) would potentially improve conservation outcomes for many species of pelagic wildlife."	NonUS	Conservation
"Providing a natural diet is a key component to improving animal welfare and potentially reducing stereotypic behaviours in captivity. Wild slow lorises (Nycticebus spp.) are threatened by illegal wildlife trade, and in Thailand, confiscations from trade have led to a large number of Bengal (Nycticebus bengalensis) and greater slow lorises (N. coucang) in rescue centers such as Bang Phra Wildlife Domestic Research Station (Bang Phra). Due to limited enclosure space and availability of natural food items, welfare may be compromised for these confiscated animals. Slow lorises in most rescue centres including Bang Phra are mainly fed with fruit and vegetables rather than their natural diet of exudates, nectar and insects. Our project aimed to increase wild-type activities and reduce stereotypic behaviours in captive slow lorises at Bang Phra by modifying the diet (especially adding exudates of gum Arabic) using environmental enrichment devices. From May to August 2019, we implemented four diet conditions on 30 individuals: baseline, gum presented in two feeding devices and insects presented in a box. Diet conditions changed individual behaviours, with more time spent feeding and foraging, less time spent resting, and less stereotypic behaviours. Fixed gum was the most successful device to encourage increased feeding (40.4 % vs similar to 3.5 % during baseline conditions) and foraging (16.3 % vs similar to 2.5 % during baseline conditions), whilst significantly decreasing stereotypic behaviours (3.2 % vs similar to 16.5 % during baseline conditions). Animals with small body sizes are often placed in small cages in rescue centres despite their needs in the wild. At the same time, species with specialist diets may not thrive in rescue centres that lack the funds or infrastructure to procure food items perceived to be specialised. With wild numbers declining rapidly, rescue centres must provide adequate space and wild type diets to ensure the health and well-being of these globally threatened primates."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The loggerhead sea turtle, Caretta caretta (Linnaeus, 1758), is the most common sea turtle species in the Mediterranean Sea, where it can experience severe anthropogenic impacts. Although C. caretta is known to host more than 200 epibiotic taxa (crustaceans, algae and cyanobacteria), no reports have included a detailed evaluation of the microbial community of its carapace scutes. Thus, this study aimed to determine the diversity and composition of the visible and invisible communities on the carapace scutes of wild loggerhead turtles from the Aeolian Archipelago (Southern Tyrrhenian Sea, Italy) by using a combined approach of morphological/spatial examination and molecular analyses. Altogether, our results displayed a higher abundance of crustaceans, macroalgae and Proteobacteria on the posterior carapace scutes, while Firmicutes were more abundant on the anterior scutes. For the first time, this study showed the complexity of the microbial (invisible) and visible epibionts of the loggerhead sea turtles from the Mediterranean Sea and suggests the importance of including evaluation of the microbial components when studying epibiont communities."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"The Emerald Triangle Protected Forests Complex (ETFC) is recognized as a globally outstanding area for transboundary biodiversity conservation. Eld's deer (Rucervus eldii) include three subspecies; R. eldii siamensis, R. eldii eldii, and R. eldii thamin. This research focused on Siamese Eld's deer (R. eldii siamense), which is one of the 10 critically endangered vertebrates found in the ETFC. Its habitats are threatened by forest conversion to agriculture and human settlements, as well as by future climate change. The objectives of this article were to predict Siamese Rd's deer distribution and to determine potential shifts in its suitable habitat as the results of different land use and climate change scenarios in 2030. Occurrence data for Siamese Eld's deer were gathered from literature and field surveys. The Maximum Entropy (Maxent) and logistic regression models were used to generate suitable habitats. The model that generated the greatest accuracy was selected for distribution mapping. The results showed 142 records of Siamese Eld's deer. The predicted distribution map generated from the logistic regression model provided greater accuracy (90%) than the Maxent (80%). The predicted habitats of Siamese Rd's deer covered 6.0% of the ETFC landscape by 2013. They were concentrated in the protected areas of the lowland forests of Cambodia and Lao PDR. The land use change only did not affect the distribution of Siamese Eld's Deer, but climate change would impact the distribution substantially. In addition, the combination of all future land use and climate changes would significantly reduce the current habitat to similar to 2.6% of the ETFC landscape, which is a decline 58.0%. The lowest extent of 2.5% was predicted for the combination of unsustainable land use and climate change scenario. Recommendations on biodiversity conservation cooperation among the three countries, habitat protection, and ex-situ conservation were proposed."	NonUS	Conservation
"Reforestation in the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of Texas began in the 1960s and to date over 6,475 ha of land has been reforested. However, there has been minimal assessment to understand differential species success, compositional trends, and the aboveground carbon sequestration potential of these developing forests. We coupled quantitative planting information of >50 native woody tree and shrub species with surveys of 5,223 stems of 4,606 individuals in a chronosequence of restored forests ranging in age from 1 to 33 years to estimate species-specific mortality rates, biomass accumulation and recruitment, as well as compositional trends in the herbaceous understory. We show that 7-15 years are required for mortality rates of the transplanted cohort to stabilize to background levels observed in other dry forests. A small number of species, mostly N-fixing trees with a deep rooting habit, persisted on the landscape beyond 15 years. Even so, aboveground biomass (corrected for differences in initial planting density) accumulated at an average rate of 1.41 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1) compared to 0.35 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1) for a fallow old-field. Species biomass growth rates increased with decreasing mortality, as did the abundance of recruits, suggesting a degree of reproduction by initial planted cohorts. However, a suite of highly competitive exotic grasses increases in density over a 25-year period, which we link to suppressed seedling recruitment. This poses a serious challenge to the long-term sustainability of planted forests in the LRGV. We highlight potential avenues of research and modification to restoration methodologies."	USA	Conservation
"Marine protected areas (MPAs) have the potential to conserve biodiversity and improve fishery sustainability, but their efficacy depends on sound design and implementation, which requires an understanding of connectivity among reserves and between reserves and fished areas. Most studies of connectivity involving reserves focus on fishes with characteristics atypical for exploited species, making the results less applicable to fisheries management. Here, patterns of genomic diversity were assessed within and among geographic samples of juvenile of silk snapper, Lutjanus vivanus, collected in protected and fished areas on the western coast of Puerto Rico. The results indicate significant variation in spatiotemporal genetic recruitment patterns, with the two MPAs located off the shelf having partially decoupled recruitment processes from sites on the shelf. Spatial autocorrelation was found at distances less than 20 km within years, but the degree and pattern of spatial structure differed across years, suggesting that recruitment along the west coast of Puerto Rico originates from semi-independent units of spawners whose contribution varies in space and time. The results suggest that while MPAs may work to supplement fisheries where recruitment is spatiotemporally predictable, in species for which adult contribution is variable in space and time, other management strategies should be explored as well."	USA	Fisheries
"1. Behavioural variation at the individual level has been shown to play an important role in animal ecology and evolution. Whereas most studies have focused on subadult or adult subjects, neonates have been relatively neglected, despite studies showing that neonates can exhibit consistent inter-individual differences during early developmental stages. 2. Steroid hormones, including glucocorticoids (e.g. cortisol) and androgens (e.g. testosterone), play a crucial role in foetal development and maturation and could therefore drive neonate behaviour, although this relationship is poorly understood in wild animal populations. 3. Our study addresses these knowledge gaps by investigating the association between neonate fallow deer Dama dama fawn inter-individual variability in behavioural response to human handling and hair cortisol and testosterone levels. 4. We found strong evidence that individual neonates display repeatable differences in the way they cope with a risky situation during their first days of life, and showed how these differences are linked to cortisol and testosterone levels accumulated in utero. We showed that, when both steroids are included in the same model, neonates with high cortisol and low testosterone levels coped in a more proactive way with human handling (higher heart rate during handling and shorter latency to leave when released) compared to those with low cortisol and high testosterone levels (lower heart rate and longer latency to leave). These results provide novel insights into the proximate mechanism leading to neonate inter-individual variation in a wild population of large mammals."	NonUS	Ecology
"Background Anthrax is a zoonotic disease primarily of herbivores, caused by Bacillus anthracis, a bacterium with diverse geographical and global distribution. Globally, livestock outbreaks have declined but in Africa significant outbreaks continue to occur with most countries still categorized as enzootic, hyper endemic or sporadic. Uganda experiences sporadic human and livestock cases. Severe large-scale outbreaks occur periodically in hippos (Hippopotamus amphibious) at Queen Elizabeth Protected Area, where in 2004/2005 and 2010 anthrax killed 437 hippos. Ecological drivers of these outbreaks and potential of hippos to maintain anthrax in the ecosystem remain unknown. This study aimed to describe spatio-temporal patterns of anthrax among hippos; examine significant trends associated with case distributions; and generate hypotheses for investigation of ecological drivers of anthrax. Methods Spatio-temporal patterns of 317 hippo cases in 2004/5 and 137 in 2010 were analyzed. QGIS was used to examine case distributions; Spearman's nonparametric tests to determine correlations between cases and at-risk hippo populations; permutation models of the spatial scan statistics to examine spatio-temporal clustering of cases; directional tests to determine directionality in epidemic movements; and standard epidemic curves to determine patterns of epidemic propagation. Key findings Results showed hippopotamus cases extensively distributed along water shorelines with strong positive correlations (p<0.01) between cases and at-risk populations. Significant (p<0.001) spatio-temporal clustering of cases occurred throughout the epidemics, pointing towards a defined source. Significant directional epidemic spread was detected along water flow gradient (206.6 degrees) in 2004/5 and against flow gradient (20.4 degrees) in 2010. Temporal distributions showed clustered pulsed epidemic waves. Conclusion These findings suggest mixed point-source propagated pattern of epidemic spread amongst hippos and points to likelihood of indirect spread of anthrax spores between hippos mediated by their social behaviour, forces of water flow, and persistent presence of infectious carcasses amidst schools. This information sheds light on the epidemiology of anthrax in highly social wildlife, can help drive insight into disease control, wildlife conservation, and tourism management, but highlights the need for analytical and longitudinal studies aimed at clarifying the hypotheses."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The illegal killing of many threatened species is an ongoing conservation concern, especially in the Mediterranean region. This study provides quantitative data on non-game birds admitted with gunshot injuries to wildlife rehabilitation centres (WRC) of the Valencian Community (eastern Spain), over a 25-year period (1991-2015). A total of 2,076 shot non-game birds of 101 different species were admitted, including 112 individuals belonging to 17 threatened species. Raptors were the most affected group, comprising 74% of the total admissions. The number of yearly admissions was positively related to the number of issued hunting licences, and both declined over the study period. Evidently, illegal hunting occurred throughout the year, although it peaked during the official hunting season. The occurrence of birds admitted with gunshot wounds was higher in more densely populated municipalities and in those closer to WRCs. Our results show that illegal hunting of protected bird species prevails despite legislative efforts, and it could pose a major problem for some endangered species. Accordingly, it is necessary to focus current action to reduce illegal hunting in conflictive areas."	NonUS	Conservation
"Climate warming is increasingly exposing wildlife to sublethal high temperatures, which may lead to chronic impacts and reduced fitness. Telomere length (TL) may link heat exposure to fitness, particularly at early-life stages, because developing organisms are especially vulnerable to adverse conditions, adversity can shorten telomeres, and TL predicts fitness. Here, we quantify how climatic and environmental conditions during early life are associated with TL in nestlings of wild purple-crowned fairy-wrens (Malurus coronatus), endangered songbirds of the monsoonal tropics. We found that higher average maximum air temperature (range 31 to 45 degrees C) during the nestling period was associated with shorter early-life TL. This effect was mitigated by water availability (i.e., during the wet season, with rainfall), but independent of other pertinent environmental conditions, implicating a direct effect of heat exposure. Models incorporating existing information that shorter early-life TL predicts shorter lifespan and reduced fitness showed that shorter TL under projected warming scenarios could lead to population decline across plausible future water availability scenarios. However, if TL is assumed to be an adaptive trait, population viability could be maintained through evolution. These results are concerning because the capacity to change breeding phenology to coincide with increased water availability appears limited, and the evolutionary potential of TL is unknown. Thus, sublethal climate warming effects early in life may have repercussions beyond individual fitness, extending to population persistence. Incorporating the delayed reproductive costs associated with sublethal heat exposure early in life is necessary for understanding future population dynamics with climate change."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Reproductive phenology (timing) is a heritable trait that confers a range of fitness or survival advantages. Giraffe (Giraffa spp.) breed year-round; however, some studies have suggested adaptive birth pulses, where demanding stages of reproduction coincide with seasonal increases in resource availability (phenological match). Here we use 3.5 years of demographic data to investigate the sociosexual behaviour and reproductive phenology of Angolan giraffe (G. g. angolensis) in the hyper arid northern Namib Desert, Namibia. We show that, in a highly seasonal desert ecosystem, giraffe gave birth to significantly more calves during the wet season. These calves were more likely to survive their first year of life, suggesting that season of birth may convey a fitness advantage. Furthermore, we show a decrease in sexual segregation between dominant (dark) adult males and adult females during the hot-dry season, suggesting a possible hot-dry season conception pulse. Finally, we demonstrate that the strongest correlation between the temporal pattern of births (wet-season pulse) and that of decreased sexual segregation (hot-dry season pulse) was time lagged by 15 months. This time lag corresponds to the period of gestation in giraffe, suggesting that a seasonal reduction in sexual segregation in this population may explain a seasonal birth pulse. These findings add to a sparse literature on the breeding phenology of giraffe, of asynchronously breeding megaherbivores, and of species with a gestation period of greater than 1 year. Results are discussed in terms of the possible environmental drivers of both season of conception and season of birth in this population. Furthermore, we highlight how predicted increases in seasonal instability due to climate change could reduce any putative fitness advantage associated with earlier birth dates.Significance statementTo maximize survival, many species align giving birth with periods where food resources are increased. We studied this phenomenon in giraffe, a large mammal that breeds year-round at all latitudes but, in seasonal environments, possibly aligns the most energetically demanding stages of reproduction with resource-rich periods. We demonstrate that in a highly seasonal desert ecosystem, giraffe gave birth to significantly more calves during the wet season. These calves were more likely to survive their first year of life, suggesting that the wet season birth pulse is adaptive. Furthermore, we show that dominant male giraffe are more likely to seek females in the hot-dry season, suggesting a conception pulse that helps to explain the wet season birth pulse. These results advance our understanding of giraffe social and mating behaviours and contribute to a better understanding of breeding phenology in megaherbivores."	NonUS	Ecology
"The production and transfer of biomass through trophic relationships is a core ecosystem function. The movement of energy through the food web is mediated by organisms operating in their niche space. For generalists, the size of this niche space is inherently plastic and changes in response to available food sources. Therefore, this relationship between ecosystem productivity and niche size is an important determinant of ecosystem function. Competing theories about the nature of this relationship predict that as productivity increases niche size will either increase as species capitalize on a general increase in resource availability or decrease as it becomes viable to focus on preferred production channels. Here, we test these two competing theoretical frameworks using a novel approach to determine trophic niche size using stable isotope analysis and hypervolume metrics. Resource use is quantified in two generalist fish species at three productivity levels in a seagrass ecosystem. Niche size of both species was inversely related to seagrass productivity, consistent with the hypothesis that increasing productivity allows species to focus on a narrower diet. This pattern describes the relationship between ecosystem production and niche size and provides an empirical ecological explanation for the resource maximization behaviors commonly observed in nature."	USA	Ecology
"HetR plays a key role in regulation of heterocyst differentiation and patterning in Anabaena. It directly regulates genes involved in heterocyst differentiation (such as hetP and hetZ), genes involved in pattern formation (patA), and many others. In this study, we investigated the functional relationship of hetP and hetZ and their role in HetR-dependent cell differentiation. Coexpression of hetP and hetZ from the promoter of ntcA, which encodes the global nitrogen regulator, enabled a hetR mutant to form heterocysts with low aerobic nitrogenase activity. Overexpression of hetZ restored heterocyst differentiation in a hetP mutant and vice versa. Overexpression of hetR restored heterocyst formation in either a hetP or a hetZ mutant but not in a hetZ hetP double mutant. The functional overlap of hetP and hetZ was further confirmed by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and transcriptomic analyses of their effects on gene expression. In addition, yeast two-hybrid and pulldown assays showed the interaction of HetZ with HetR. HetP and HetZ are proposed as the two major factors that control heterocyst formation in response to upregulation of hetR. IMPORTANCE Heterocyst-forming cyanobacteria contribute significantly to N-2 fixation in marine, freshwater, and terrestrial ecosystems. Formation of heterocysts enables this group of cyanobacteria to fix N-2 efficiently under aerobic conditions. HetR, HetP, and HetZ are among the most important factors involved in heterocyst differentiation. We present evidence for the functional overlap of hetP and hetZ and for the key role of the HetR-HetP/HetZ circuit in regulation of heterocyst differentiation. The regulatory mechanism based on HetR, HetP, and HetZ is probably conserved in all heterocyst-forming cyanobacteria."	NonUS	Genetics
"Livestock production in Africa is key to national economies, food security and rural livelihoods, and > 85% of livestock keepers live in extreme poverty. With poverty elimination central to the Sustainable Development Goals, livestock keepers are therefore critically important. Foot-and-mouth disease is a highly contagious livestock disease widespread in Africa that contributes to this poverty. Despite its US$2.3 billion impact, control of the disease is not prioritized: standard vaccination regimens are too costly, its impact on the poorest is underestimated, and its epidemiology is too weakly understood. Our integrated analysis in Tanzania shows that the disease is of high concern, reduces household budgets for human health, and has major impacts on milk production and draft power for crop production. Critically, foot-and-mouth disease outbreaks in cattle are driven by livestock-related factors with a pattern of changing serotype dominance over time. Contrary to findings in southern Africa, we find no evidence of frequent infection from wildlife, with outbreaks in cattle sweeping slowly across the region through a sequence of dominant serotypes. This regularity suggests that timely identification of the epidemic serotype could allow proactive vaccination ahead of the wave of infection, mitigating impacts, and our preliminary matching work has identified potential vaccine candidates. This strategy is more realistic than wildlife-livestock separation or conventional foot-and-mouth disease vaccination approaches. Overall, we provide strong evidence for the feasibility of coordinated foot-and-mouth disease control as part of livestock development policies in eastern Africa, and our integrated socioeconomic, epidemiological, laboratory and modelling approach provides a framework for the study of other disease systems."	NonUS	Ecology
"Coral reefs in the Caribbean are known to be affected by many coral diseases, yet the ecology and etiology of most diseases remain understudied. The Caribbean ciliate infection (CCI) caused by ciliates belonging to the genus Halofolliculina is a common disease on Caribbean reefs, with direct contact considered the most likely way through which the ciliates can be transmitted between infected and healthy colonies. Here we report an observation regarding a Coralliophila sp. snail feeding in proximity to a cluster of ciliates forming the typical disease band of CCI. The result of this observation is twofold. The feeding behavior of the snail may allow the passive attachment of ciliates on the body or shell of the snail resulting in indirect transport of the ciliates among colonies, which makes it eligible as a possible disease vector. Alternatively, the lesions created from snail feeding may enhance the progression of the ciliates already present on the coral as well as promoting additional infections allowing pathogens to enter through the feeding scar."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding how microorganisms adjust their metabolism to maintain their ability to cope with short-term environmental variations constitutes one of the major current challenges in microbial ecology. Here, the best physiologically characterized marineSynechococcusstrain, WH7803, was exposed to modulated light/dark cycles or acclimated to continuous high-light (HL) or low-light (LL), then shifted to various stress conditions, including low (LT) or high temperature (HT), HL and ultraviolet (UV) radiations. Physiological responses were analyzed by measuring time courses of photosystem (PS) II quantum yield, PSII repair rate, pigment ratios and global changes in gene expression. Previously published membrane lipid composition were also used for correlation analyses. These data revealed that cells previously acclimated to HL are better prepared than LL-acclimated cells to sustain an additional light or UV stress, but not a LT stress. Indeed, LT seems to induce a synergic effect with the HL treatment, as previously observed with oxidative stress. While all tested shift conditions induced the downregulation of many photosynthetic genes, notably those encoding PSI, cytochromeb(6)/fand phycobilisomes, UV stress proved to be more deleterious for PSII than the other treatments, and full recovery of damaged PSII from UV stress seemed to involve the neo-synthesis of a fairly large number of PSII subunits and not just the reassembly of pre-existing subunits after D1 replacement. In contrast, genes involved in glycogen degradation and carotenoid biosynthesis pathways were more particularly upregulated in response to LT. Altogether, these experiments allowed us to identify responses common to all stresses and those more specific to a given stress, thus highlighting genes potentially involved in niche acclimation of a key member of marine ecosystems. Our data also revealed important specific features of the stress responses compared to model freshwater cyanobacteria."	NonUS	Ecology
"The Napoleon wrasse, an endangered fish (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) Appendix II, 2004), is a valuable component of the Chinese live reef fish trade. Only Indonesia legally exports up to 2000 Napoleon fish annually, with each fish weighing between 1 and 3 kg. Information on natural abundance and fish sizes was required to determine sustainable export quotas. Hence, an underwater visual survey method, using GPS-based multi-kilometre transects, was tailored for this uncommon wide-ranging fish. Transects totalling 430 km were run between 2005 and 2016 at nine locations. Six locations were resurveyed between six and nine years later, which was long enough to allow for recruitment and maturation. Fish density and sizes across locations were inversely related to fishing intensity, and densities increased significantly between surveys. Low density (0.04-0.86 fish hectare(-1)) and few adult-sized fish were in heavily fished locations. Higher densities occurred (0.86-4.0 fish hectare(-1)) in lightly/unfished locations, where evidence of recruitment was also seen. Nowhere were many male-sized (>1 m long) fish present. At Karas Is., where fishing ceased between surveys, clear sign of recovery was seen after 9 years. Comparison of survey data from 11 Indo-Pacific countries indicated that in Indonesia adult densities were lower at comparable levels of fishing pressure than elsewhere. Densities of 5 fish hectare(-1) or more are more typical of lightly fished or unfished areas across the Pacific, which is greater than the highest density of 4 fish hectare(-1) noted in this study at Banda Islands. Low densities of the species, despite the presence of adult-sized fish, in Bunaken Marine Park probably reflects the continuance of fishing both within and adjacent to the park. Conservation options include improved implementation of CITES regulations by Indonesia, through tighter export controls and the tagging of legally exported fish, the activation of the National Plan of Action, a temporary moratorium to restore reproductive capacity, and more marine protected areas."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Entamoeba is a genus of gastrointestinal protozoon that is transmitted through contaminated food and water. This protozoon is commonly found in human and nonhuman primates. Contact between humans and Formosan rock macaques (Macaca cyclopis) has become more frequent due to food provisioning; accordingly, concerns regarding zoonotic pathogen transmission through the fecal-oral route have increased. For example, surveillance of intestinal parasites in wild Formosan rock macaques indicated that Entamoeba infection was the most prevalent type of intestinal parasite infection. The morphologies of pathogenic and nonpathogenic species are difficult to distinguish. In this study, we collected fecal samples from wild Formosan rock macaques in the Shoushan National Nature Park (Kaohsiung, Taiwan) and adopted both morphologic and molecular methods for Entamoeba species identification. In total, we collected 208 fecal samples with a 57.7% (120/208, 95% confidence interval: 50.9-60.4%) prevalence of Entamoeba infection. Four Entamoeba species were identified: three nonpathogenic species, Entamoeba coli (19%), Entamoeba chattoni (50%), and Entamoeba hartmanni (11%), and one potentially pathogenic species, Entamoeba nuttalli (20%). Our study revealed the risk of zoonotic transmission of these Entamoeba species to humans. To address relevant public health and wildlife conservation concerns, further research is required to fully understand the virulence of E. nuttalli isolated from Formosan rock macaques."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Accurate determination of chronological age for cats (Felis catus) permits assessment of age at reproduction and growth measures, whilst understanding survivorship enables modelling of population dynamics underpinning many management questions. At present, the relative accuracy of different measures has not been compared, especially in relation to ageing live cats, where options are more limited. We tested relationships between nine ageing methods using a large database of 384 unowned, free-roaming cats culled as part of wildlife conservation and unowned cat management. Cat heads were cleaned and scored for tooth eruption, development of the canines (root closure, length and width; proportion of pulp determined by radiography), canine tooth cementum lines, tooth wear (canine tip sharpness and breakage, or absence of the P-2), diastema distance and closure of two cranial sutures. Tooth eruption is informative for cats up to about 8 months of age and closure of the canine root up to 12 months. In adults with closed-rooted canine teeth, only the cementum lines and cranial sutures varied; these two sets of measures were strongly correlated. We conclude by developing a predictive table for ageing cat specimens using tooth and skull features. Animals can be aged reliably over the lifespan of the animal from cadaver material, potentially adding valuable information to ecological studies where cats are culled. However, there is no way to reliably age live cats over approximately 8 months of age in the field, after which time full adult dentition is established. Similarly, radiography (to determine pulp volume) has limited use as an ageing tool for cats older than 1-2 years of age. This reduces the number of potential applications for live cats, including, for example, ageing unowned cats in trap-neuter-release programmes."	NonUS	Ecology
"Maintaining the accretion potential and three dimensional structure of coral reefs is a priority but reef-building scleractinian corals are highly threatened and retreating. Hence future reefs are predicted to be dominated by non-constructional taxa. Since the Late Triassic however, other non-scleractinian anthozoans such as Heliopora have contributed to tropical and subtropical reef-building. Heliopora is an ancient and highly conserved reef building octocoral genus within the monospecific Family Helioporidae, represented by a single extant species -H. coerulea, Pallas, 1766. Here we show integrated morphological, genomic and reproductive evidence to substantiate the existence of a second species within the genus Heliopora. Importantly, some individuals of the new species herein described as Heliopora hiberniana sp. nov. feature a white skeleton indicating that the most diagnostic and conserved Heliopora character (the blue skeleton) can be displaced. The new species is currently known only from offshore areas in north Western Australia, which is a part of the world where coral bleaching events have severely impacted the scleractinian community over the last two decades. Field observations indicate individuals of both H. coerulea and H. hiberniana sp. nov. were intact after the 2016 Scott Reef thermal stress event, and we discuss the possibility that bleaching resistant non-scleractinian reef builders such as Heliopora could provide new ecological opportunities for the reconfiguration of future reefs by filling empty niches and functional roles left open by the regression of scleractinian corals."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Aim Phylogeographic studies on savanna ungulates have extensively evaluated genetic patterns mostly related to Pleistocene climatic oscillations. We address this subject through a comprehensive assessment across the pan-African range of the roan antelope, assessing whether climatic oscillations or natural physical barriers play a predominant role in the evolutionary history of the species. We also address the spatial concordance of the genetic structure with the currently recognized subspecies. Location Sub-Saharan Africa. Taxon Roan antelope (Hippotragus equinus). Methods We genotyped 43 microsatellite loci and sequenced whole-mitochondrial genomes for 131 individuals across the species' entire African range. We performed spatial analyses of genetic diversity for contemporary and historical samples and calculated overall patterns of genetic differentiation and structure for both marker types. We also estimated the timing of divergence events and demographic trends, correlating these with the species' biotic attributes as well as abiotic features shaping African savanna habitats. Results Our analyses uncovered highly structured clusters and contact zones across the distribution of the roan antelope, including five nuclear groups and four mitochondrial lineages. The north-west group had the highest level of intra-group diversity as well as inter-group divergence and represents the oldest vicariant event. The central and southern groups had the lowest intra-group diversity with low divergence values separating them, suggesting a more recent ancestry for these groups. All population groups showed signals of demographic stability over time showed signals of demographic stability over a demographic decline during the Holocene. Main conclusions The roan antelope exhibits significant population structure across its African range. This structure is largely associated with natural physical barriers, whereas contact zones could more easily be explained by climatic events. Based on estimates of genetic diversity, we propose a West African ancestry for this species with subsequent eastward and southern range expansions, as well as the persistence of stable population numbers within refugia. A general trend of population size decreases likely reflects Holocene extreme climatic events and increased human pressure."	NonUS	Genetics
"Sex steroid hormones play important roles in fish sex differentiation, gonadal development and secondary sexual characteristics. Olive flounder Paralichthys olivaceus is a valuable commercial marine fish species and has marked sexual dimorphism. However, the mechanisms of action of sex hormones in flounder sex are still unclear. In this study, a total of ten Hsd17b family genes, including Hsd17b3, -4, -7, -8, -9, -10, -12a, -12b, -14 and -15, were identified in the flounder, which encoded critical enzymes acting on sex steroid synthesis and metabolism. Hsd17b genes were distributed on eight chromosomes. Hsd17b12a and -12b were located on chromosomes 19 and 7, respectively. It was speculated that these two genes were just highly similar rather than different transcripts derived from the same gene. According to the results of domain and motif analyses, they all belonged to the SDR superfamily and contained conserved Hsd17b motifs TGxxxGxG, PGxxxT, NNAG and YxxxK. Analysis of amino acid sequences predicted that Hsd17b1, -4, -7, -12a and -14 were hydrophilic proteins. The stability of Hsd17b1, -3 and -12b proteins was predicted to be low. The various Hsd17b family genes differed in tissue expression pattern, and Hsd17b10, -12a and -12b were highly expressed in the flounder ovary. Moreover, throughout gonadal development, Hsd17b3 was highly expressed in the testis, and Hsd17b1, -12a and -12b were highly expressed in the ovary, suggesting that they might play an important role in testosterone synthesis in the testis or estrogen synthesis in the ovary. Activities of Hsd17b3 at stages I-V were all significantly higher in the testis than in the ovary (P < 0.05, P < 0.01). Transfection analysis in HEK293T cells showed that Hsd17b1 and -3 were located in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. Additionally, after challenging fish with tamoxifen, Hsd17b3 expression level in the testis decreased significantly (P < 0.01), and in the ovary no significant change was observed. Moreover, the expression of Hsd17b1 in the ovary was significantly upregulated after injection with flutamide (P < 0.05). These findings introduce the characteristics of the flounder Hsd17b in subfamily, which contribute to our understanding of the regulation of sex steroid hormone synthesis in fish gonadal development."	NonUS	Genetics
"Marine mammals and diving birds face several physiological challenges under water, affecting their thermoregulation and locomotion as well as their sensory systems. Therefore, marine mammals have modified ears for improved underwater hearing. Underwater hearing in birds has been studied in a few species, but for the record-holding divers, such as penguins, there are no detailed data. We played underwater noise bursts to gentoo penguins (Pygoscelis papua) in a large tank at received sound pressure levels between 100 and 120 dB re 1 mu Pa RMS. The penguins showed a graded reaction to the noise bursts, ranging from no reactions at 100 dB to strong reactions in more than 60% of the playbacks at 120 dB re 1 mu Pa. The responses were always directed away from the sound source. The fact that penguins can detect and react to underwater stimuli may indicate that they make use of sound stimuli for orientation and prey detection during dives. Further, it suggests that penguins may be sensitive to anthropogenic noise, like many species of marine mammals."	NonUS	Ecology
"Mast-fruiting trees represent a pulsed resource that both supports and destabilizes consumer populations. Whereas a reliable resource is abundant on average and with limited variation in time and space, masting is volatile and localized, and that variability ramifies throughout food-webs. Theory is developed to evaluate how the space-time structure of masting interacts with consumers who exploit alternative hosts, forage widely in space, and store reserves in time. We derive the space-time-species covariance in resource supply and combine it with the space-time-diet breadth of consumers, or ambit. Direct connection to data is made possible with Mast Inference and Forecasting (MASTIF), a state-space autoregressive model that fits seed-trap and canopy observations and predicts resource availability within the canopy and on the forest floor with full uncertainty. A resource score can be assigned to each consumer-habitat combination that integrates the benefits of a high mean supply weighed against the variance cost. As the consumer ambit increases, the volatility of an unreliable resource shifts from a variance cost to a mean benefit. Consumers foraging in the canopy (arboreal arthropods and rodents, song birds) experience space-time covariance between host trees. Consumers on the forest floor (seed and damping-off fungi, arthropods, rodents, ground-nesting birds, mammals) experience instead a redistribution of that covariance by dispersal. For consumers lacking mobility, demographic storage in the form of episodic birth cohorts following mast years is important for population persistence. Consumers additionally compensate volatility with diet breadth. Depending on the dominant masting strategies of host tree species in the diet, habitats differentially limit consumers depending on the misalignment between consumer ambit and spatiotemporal covariance of hosts. The impact of adding or subtracting a diet item can be gauged with the standard error (SE) rule or the benefit of an added diet item balanced against the variance cost, both of which depend on the existing diet, the abundance of the new host, and the consumer's foraging ambit. Results rank habitats by their capacities to support wildlife and other consumers from a resource perspective. Results are connected directly to data, with full uncertainty, by MASTIF."	USA	Ecology
"Connectivity among populations of widespread marine species is expected to be correlated with their dispersal potential but the evolution of reproductive barriers may account for variations in spatial genetic patterns. Marine benthic hydroid species are traditionally considered widespread, with long-distance rafting presumably increasing their dispersal potential. In this study, we investigated the relationship between genetic, morphological and environmental variability within three benthic marine hydroid species to evaluate current patterns of genetic variation and assess the existence of cryptic speciation. Although a long-lived planktonic stage is absent in all the lineages sampled and they have an overlapping geographical ranges, we observed contrasting patterns of genetic and phenotypic divergence: Orthopyxis sargassicola showed little genetic variation, while O. caliculata and O. crenata each contained high genetic differentiation, primarily suggesting limited dispersal potential. Significant covariation was observed between phenotypic and environmental data in all lineages, but different environmental variables were responsible for explaining morphological variation in each case. Genetic and morphological patterns within O. caliculata and O. crenata are suggestive of cryptic speciation, while phenotypic variation in O. sargassicola may be plastic. Thus, morphological and genetic patterns may potentially vary among related marine lineages with shared life history traits and habitat."	NonUS	Genetics
"In Europe, Dirofilaria immitis persists mainly in the southern countries with a Mediterranean climate. Because spreading of heartworms from these countries towards the northern ones could be observed in the past decades, necropsy records of 4076 Hungarian dogs were reviewed for heartworm infections. The first autochthonous canine D. immitis case was detected on the Great Hungarian Plain in 2007. Until 2011, the number of heartworm infection cases was low, and these cases were restricted to a small part of the Great Hungarian Plain. Since 2012, the number of cases has increased considerably, and the rapid expansion of the parasites geographic range could also be observed. Our retrospective study has revealed that most of the Hungarian territory became a heartworm endemic region, and the prevalence of infection greatly multiplied over the past 12 years. The establishment, rapid spread, and emergence of D. immitis may be mainly explained by the warming climate in Hungary. However, the partly climate-driven spread of the most important reservoir host in wildlife, the golden jackal (Canis aureus) from the Mediterranean Balkan Peninsula might have also played a significant role. This study is an example of the rapid spread and emergence of pathogens resulting from climate and climate-driven ecological changes. Because a continuous increase in the temperature and further dispersal of golden jackals in Europe are projected, further spread and emergence of heartworm can be expected. Similar spread and emergence of D. immitis could be observed in North America. It cannot be excluded that similar reasons (global warming and rapid dispersal and population growth of the most important wild canine reservoir host) are in the background on both continents."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"In 2015 the entire breeding colony of nesting waterbirds on Seahorse Key (Florida, USA.) unexpectedly abandoned the island and have not returned. These birds have a unique trophic relationship with a sympatric cottonmouth snake (Agkistrodon conanti) population, as well as potentially important positions within the entire insular food web. Species-interaction network analysis was used to compare two trophic networks; pre-and post-abandonment. Trophic data were used to create a weighted adjacency matrix for each network and the resulting network metrics were compared using the network analysis software package UCINET and visualized using NetDraw. Results for the pre-abandonment network indicated a large, complex, diffuse network with low centrality and seven sub-networks. Several species of colonial nesting birds were identified as holding important positions within the network for resource transfer from marine and intertidal environments to terrestrial trophic guilds, particularly to the snakes. Post-abandonment analysis showed the network significantly fractured with the terrestrial trophic guild that includes the snakes being smaller, more isolated and potentially less stable."	USA	Ecology
"Disease has become an increasingly recognised problem in the marine environment, but our understanding of the factors that drive disease or our ability to predict its occurrence is limited. Marine sponges are known for their close associations with microorganisms, which are generally accepted to underpin sponge health and function. The aim of this study is to explore whether the microbial community composition of sponges can act as a predictor of disease occurrence under stressful environmental conditions. The development of a naturally occurring disease in the temperate sponge species Scopalina sp. was reproducibly recreated in a flow-through aquarium environment using increasing temperature stress. Throughout the experiments, four morphological health states were observed and described. Fingerprinting based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of the bacterial community uncovered a statistically significant signature in healthy sponges prior to stress or apparent symptoms that correlated with the time it took for the disease to occur. This shows that the bacterial community composition of individual sponges can act as predictors of necrotic disease development. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time a microbial signature of this nature has been reported in marine sponges and this finding can contribute to unravelling cause-effect pathways for stress-related dysbiosis and disease."	NonUS	Ecology
"Marine protected areas (MPAs) are an increasingly popular, but debated, management strategy to conserve marine biodiversity and ensure sustainable human use of the oceans. Economic studies can contribute to the debate about MPAs as a management option by evaluating their benefits and costs to society. In this paper, we outline how to evaluate the economic benefits and costs of MPAs and provide examples from the literature to demonstrate the methods described. We review challenges and opportunities of different economic methods. One key challenge is to meaningfully compare market and non-market benefits of MPAs-this comparison is complicated by the scarcity of studies that quantify the non-market benefits of MPAs. Another key challenge is to quantify how the value of marine areas may change with and without MPAs. Costs are often easier to estimate than benefits, but some costs-such as maintenance and compliance costs-are rarely recognized. Analytical choices will influence the identified economic costs and benefits of MPAs. For example, the spatial extent of analyses will influence what changes in underlying ecological processes are captured and conclusions about the equitable distribution of costs and benefits across society. For these reasons, it is important that managers are aware of the challenges and opportunities described here, so that they can obtain and use the best-quality economic information to guide decision making about MPAs."	NonUS	Conservation
"Introduction. The quasi-two-phase theory of propagation of an elastic wave in the unconsolidated marine sediments is represented. The longitudinal and shear waves can propagate in marine sediments. The phase velocities, the attenuation coefficients and their frequency dependences are the acoustic properties of these waves. It is shown experimentally that the in dry granular media, the attenuation coefficient is directly proportional to frequency. Whereas in the saturated media, the deviations from this law are noted whence it follows that there are two physical loss mechanisms: the internal and viscous friction. Data and methods. The medium in a dry state is represented as a generalized Kelvin-Voigt element consisting of a spring and a springpot that is an element combining the spring conservative properties and the dashpot dissipative properties. The wave equation and the dispersion relation including the internal friction only are deduced using the mathematical apparatus of the fractional derivatives. Then, a new two-phase equation of state is deduced, where a part of the fluid is considered to be associated with a solid phase and another part is mobile. Substitution of the equation of state into the wave equation results in a quadratic dispersion relation whose roots yield the wave numbers of two types of the waves, namely the fast and slow ones (Grain Shearing + Effective Compressibility or GS + EC theory). According to the GS + EC theory, significant sound speed dispersion and deviations of the attenuation frequency dependence upon the linear law in the mid-frequency range occur due to a change of the medium compressibility. Results. The results of the GS + EC theory are compared with the experimental measurement data on of phase velocity and attenuation taken from the open sources. It is shown that at low frequencies, the unconsolidated medium is of greater compressibility than at high ones that is a result of the fluid displacement from the pore space narrowing. Discussion and conclusion. Viscous dissipation is manifested at the medium frequencies, when the fluid is still mobile and the viscous forces are rather significant. At high frequencies, the granules and the fluid oscillate together, and attenuation in the medium arises due to the forces of the internal friction."	NonUS	Technology
"The results of a study of the structural and functional characteristics of phytoplankton in the coastal region of the Black Sea using flow cytometry are presented. The data on the seasonal variability of the biomass of three algal groups (Synechococcus, pico-eukaryotic phytoplankton, and nanophytoplankton), chlorophyll a content, percentage of living cells, and FDA (diacetate fluorescein) fluorescence characterizing the functional state of algae are obtained. A significantly positive relationship is found between the values (biomass and autofluorescence of chlorophyll) determined on the flow cytometer and the total content of chlorophyll a, calculated using standard methods. The effect of temperature, illumination, and content of nutrients in water on the biomass and the FDA fluorescence of three isolated groups of algae is shown. The nitrate content and temperature have no significant effect on the abundance of pico and nanophytoplankton, while a reliable relationship is established between the biomass of nanophytoplankton and the concentrations of dissolved forms of mineral phosphorus. An inverse statistically significant correlation is found between the light intensity and the biomass of picoeukaryotic phytoplankton. It is demonstrated that the abiotic environmental factors considered in the study do not significantly affect the FDA fluorescence value, except for temperature: in the warm period of the year, the picophytoplankton are most active in the Black Sea, while the cold period of the year is favorable for the development of nanophytoplankton."	NonUS	Ecology
"The Cretaceous-Paleogene (K-Pg) transition saw mass extinctions in terrestrial and marine ecosystems. Terrestrial vertebrate diversity patterns across the K-Pg boundary have seen extensive study, but less is known about marine vertebrates. We describe a new mosasaurid from the latest Maastrichtian phos-phatic beds of Morocco, showing how mosasaurids evolved to become apex predators in the latest Cretaceous. Thalassotitan atrox gen. et sp. nov., from the Oulad Abdoun Basin of Khouribga Province, Morocco is characterized by large size, a broad skull, massive jaws, and reduced cranial kinesis, sug-gesting it was highly adapted for carnivory. Teeth resemble those of killer whales in their robust, conical shape, and show heavy wear and damage. Phylogenetic analysis recovers Thalassotitan as a close relative of Prognathodon currii and P. saturator within the Prognathodontini. Among the associated fauna, three genera of mosasaurids, elasmosaurid plesiosaur, chelonioid turtle, and enchodontid fish show acid damage, and could be prey ingested by mosasaurids, likely Thalassotitan. Thalassotitan shows mosa-saurids evolved to fill the marine apex predator niche, a niche occupied by orcas and white sharks today. Mosasaurs continued to diversify and fill new niches until their extinction at the end of the Cretaceous.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Other
"Urbanisation processes are increasing worldwide at surprising rates affecting wildlife in many ways: changing habitat structure, reducing resources, and modifying the distribution, composition and abundance of local biota. In different countries, urban waste collection techniques are evolving and surface rubbish containers (neighbourhood receptacles for temporarily storing anthropogenic household waste located above-ground on the streets) are being replaced with underground ones (metal boxes with steel chutes that fed into large underground containers) to improve sanitation measures, to avoid bad smells and waste scattering by animals. We aimed to detect if House Sparrows were more abundant close to surface rubbish containers than close to the underground ones. We recorded an abundance index of House Sparrows during two visits in winter 2018-2019 to point counts located in groups of both container types (80 and 85 groups of underground and surface containers, respectively) in eight towns of Eastern Spain. We modelled the abundance index according to rubbish container type, and 14 other environmental variables at four scales: container, nearest buildings, near urban features, and general locality features using GLMMs. House Sparrows were more abundant close to surface than to underground rubbish containers, which may be linked with higher food debris availability. The presence of other urban features (bar terraces, private gardens, mature trees) interacting with the rubbish containers also influenced the abundance of House Sparrows. The replacement of above-ground rubbish containers with underground ones may deprive House Sparrows resources, which could lead to the decline of this species, especially in urban areas with little green cover."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Examining the movement of apex predators is difficult in urban environments due to private land ownership; however, understanding their movement is critical given the current and rapidly increasing rate of urbanization globally. Of equal importance is the understanding of what landscape factors allow these movements to occur. We used the powerful owl (Ninox strenua), an urban apex predator in Melbourne, Australia, as a case study to understand their movement ecology in urban environments. Owl movement was recorded using automated GPS logging devices deployed on ten powerful owls, resulting in 10870 GPS locations. In combination with these positions, four environmental covariates, and a priori understanding of owl ecology were used to assign movements to three different states (prey handling/eating, foraging and transitory) based on step length and turning angles between sequential locations in a hidden Markov model. We demonstrate that the environmental covariate combination of time of night, Euclidean distance to riparian vegetation, and NDVI best described movement states. Owl movement states changed across the night. Shorter movements with many turns were made towards the beginning of the night in riparian areas with high NDVI. This behavior is most likely linked to prey handling, suggesting powerful owls are more likely to hunt early in the evenings and as such travel short distances while carrying large prey items. Transitory movements with limited changes in turning angles were the dominant movement state towards the end of the night. As owls leave areas of high NDVI, they quickly travel long distances across cleared land and impervious surfaces to connect to the next habitat patch where they then transition back into shorter step lengths where NDVI is higher. This research highlights the critical importance of riparian vegetation and high NDVI areas in driving powerful owl movement and foraging in urban landscapes. Conservation priority should be placed on retaining and restoring riparian corridors as areas not only for powerful owls and their prey, but also for many other species that utilize similar resources. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V."	NonUS	Ecology
"Dinoroseobacter shibae is an aerobic anoxygenic phototroph and able to utilize light energy to support its aerobic energy metabolism. Since the cells can also grow anaerobically with nitrate and nitrite as terminal electron acceptor, we were interested in how the cells profit from photosynthesis during denitrification and what the steps of chemiosmotic energy conservation are. Therefore, we conducted proton translocation experiments and compared O-2(-), NO3-, and NO2- respiration during different light regimes and in the dark. We used wild type cells and transposon mutants with knocked-out nitrate- and nitrite- reductase genes (napA and nirS), as well as a mutant (ppsR) impaired in bacteriochlorophyll a synthesis. Light had a positive impact on proton translocation, independent of the type of terminal electron acceptor present. In the absence of an electron acceptor, however, light did not stimulate proton translocation. The light-driven add-on to proton translocation was about 1.4 H+/e(-) for O-2 respiration and about 1.1 H+/e(-) for NO3- and NO2-. We could see that the chemiosmotic energy conservation during aerobic respiration involved proton translocation, mediated by the NADH dehydrogenase, the cytochrome bc(1) complex, and the cytochrome c oxidase. During denitrification the last proton translocation step of the electron transport was missing, resulting in a lower H+/e(-) ratio during anoxia. Furthermore, we studied the type of light-harvesting and found that the cells were able to channel light from the green-blue spectrum most efficiently, while red light has only minor impact. This fits well with the depth profiles for D. shibae abundance in the ocean and the penetration depth of light with different wavelengths into the water column."	NonUS	Ecology
"The vulnerability of marine biodiversity to accelerated rates of climatic change is poorly understood. By developing a new method for identifying extreme oceanic warming events during Earth's most recent deglaciation, and comparing these to 21st century projections, we show that future rates of ocean warming will disproportionately affect the most speciose marine communities, potentially threatening biodiversity in more than 70% of current-day global hotspots of marine species richness. The persistence of these richest areas of marine biodiversity will require many species to move well beyond the biogeographic realm where they are endemic, at rates of redistribution not previously seen. Our approach for quantifying exposure of biodiversity to past and future rates of oceanic warming provides new context and scalable information for deriving and strengthening conservation actions to safeguard marine biodiversity under climate change."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Participatory approaches, such as community photography, can engage the public in questions of societal and scientific interest while helping advance understanding of ecological patterns and processes. We combined data extracted from community-sourced, spatially explicit photographs with research findings from 2018 fieldwork in the Yukon, Canada, to evaluate winter coat molt patterns and phenology in mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus), a cold-adapted, alpine mammal. Leveraging the community science portals iNaturalist and CitSci, in less than a year we amassed a database of almost seven hundred unique photographs spanning some 4,500 km between latitudes 37.6 degrees N and 61.1 degrees N from 0 to 4,333 m elevation. Using statistical methods accounting for incomplete data, a common issue in community science datasets, we identified the effects of intrinsic (sex and presence of offspring) and broad environmental (latitude and elevation) factors on molt onset and rate and compared our findings with published data. Shedding occurred over a 3-month period between 29 May and 6 September. Effects of sex and offspring on the timing of molt were consistent between the community-sourced and our Yukon data and with findings on wild mountain goats at a long-term research site in west-central Alberta, Canada. Males molted first, followed by females without offspring (4.4 days later in the coarse-grained, geographically wide community science sample; 29.2 days later in our fine-grained Yukon sample) and lastly females with new kids (6.2; 21.2 days later, respectively). Shedding was later at higher elevations and faster at northern latitudes. Our findings establish a basis for employing community photography to examine broad-scale questions about the timing of ecological events, as well as sex differences in response to possible climate drivers. In addition, community photography can help inspire public participation in environmental and outdoor activities specifically with reference to iconic wildlife."	USA	Ecology
"Species assessed as threatened by the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN) show evidence of declining population sizes. Genetic diversity is lost by this decline, which reduces the adaptive potential of the species and increases its extinction risk in a changing environment. In this study, we collected an extensive dataset of nucleotide diversities in the COI (Cytochrome C Oxidase subunit I) mitochondrial gene for 4,363 animal species assessed by IUCN and found significantly reduced levels of diversity in threatened species of long-lived animal classes. Then, we built up a comparative frame by acquiring the 95% confidence interval (CI) of mean values of COI nucleotide diversity in bootstrapped samples of nonthreatened species. Finally, we tested the comparative frame with data from the endangered bivalve species,Pinna nobilis. We conclude that nucleotide diversity in COI is a good proxy for a first evaluation of the conservation status of species populations, where previous knowledge is lacking and census is difficult to perform ."	NonUS	Genetics
"Wildlife tourism from developed nations generates a previously unidentified economic counterflow, derived from the economic value of tourist mental health gains transferred back to countries of origin post-vacation. For eastern and southern Africa, this counterflow is estimated at -US$100 billion per annum. That is-2.5 times larger than total in-country tourism expenditure in the destination nations, and also-2.5 times larger than all development aid they receive. Post-COVID recovery of tourism, mental health, conservation and community programs in developing nations, and the economies of both developing and developed nations can all benefit from reinvigoration of international wildlife tourism."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Ship wakes generated by vessels moving through ecologically sensitive areas, or near poorly-protected infrastructure, can negatively impact these systems. This is especially true in regions hosting large seaports. Ship wakes in Tampa Bay, Florida, were calculated during two time periods using vessel movement data reported through the Automatic Identification System (AIS). The first period was for the years 2015-2017 using data from a government database. The second was during part of 2018 obtained by local monitoring. Only vessels operating at low Froude numbers were examined. Wake heights were estimated from each AIS record using an empirical equation and partitioned by functional vessel class. The largest estimated wakes were produced by the Passenger class. Cargo class vessels had the largest number of ships estimated to produce high wakes. Egmont Key, a longeroding barrier island at the mouth of the Bay, was potentially subjected to the highest number of ship wakes and the highest cumulative wake energy. Differences in vessel representation in the two sets of AIS data yielded different distributions of wake energy by vessel class. Some strategies for managing wake energy are discussed."	USA	Ecology
"To accurately determine the space use of animals, we need to follow animal movements over prolonged periods, which is especially challenging for the critically endangered Grauer's gorillas (Gorilla beringei graueri) in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). As a consequence, we know little about Grauer's gorillas, particularly from the lower elevational parts of their range. Between 2016 and 2018, we tracked unhabituated Grauer's gorillas in lowland forests (500-1,000 m a.s.l.), at the community-managed Nkuba Conservation Area in Nord Kivu (DRC) to provide estimates of daily travel distances (DTD), daily displacement distances (DDD), and the linearity of recorded paths expressed as the Linearity Index (LI): DDD/DTD. We found an average DTD of similar to 1.3 km (range 0.05-5.0 km), with temporal variation among monthly averages; specifically, an increase in travel distance over the June-August dry season resulting in peak travel distances at the beginning of the September-December wet season. Daily displacements showed similar temporal variation, which resulted in a lack of obvious temporal patterns in LI. We conclude that the movement patterns of Grauer's gorillas in lowland forests, which are characterized by larger DTD than those of Grauer's gorillas that inhabit highland habitats, show similarity to travel distances of other predominantly frugivorous gorillas. Moreover, the observed temporal patterns in space use may be tentatively linked to temporal changes in fruit availability or consumption. These observations have consequences for our understanding of the ecological role that Grauer's gorillas play and provide baseline data to estimate current and future distributions, abundances, and carrying capacities of this highly threatened animal."	NonUS	Ecology
"1. Understanding the processes that influence the diversity of ecological communities and their susceptibility to invasion by exotic species remains a challenge in ecology. In many systems, a positive relationship between the richness of native species and exotic species has been observed at larger spatial (e.g., regional) scales, while a negative pattern has been observed at local (e.g., plot) scales. These patterns are widely attributed to (1) biotic interactions, particularly biotic resistance, limiting invasions in high-diversity locations, producing negative local-scale relationships, and (2) native and exotic richness covarying at larger spatial scales as a function of environmental conditions and heterogeneity, producing positive large-scale relationships. However, alternative processes can produce similar patterns and need to be critically evaluated to make sound inferences about underlying mechanisms. 2. We aggregated a large dataset of aquatic vegetation surveys from 1,102 Minnesota shallow lakes collected over 13 years to quantify spatial and temporal patterns of community composition. Using those data and additional information on environmental conditions we evaluated evidence for four distinct mechanisms that could drive patterns of native and exotic species richness: biotic resistance, competitive exclusion, environmental filtering and environmental heterogeneity. 3. We found the classic pattern of a negative native-exotic richness relationship at local scales and a positive relationship at lake scales. However, we found no evidence for local-scale biotic resistance; instead, competitive exclusion by invasive species appeared to reduce native species richness after locations became invaded. Evaluating the influence of environmental filtering and heterogeneity, we found that native and exotic species occupied somewhat different niches. Invaders were less sensitive to environmental gradients and more tolerant of a wider range of conditions. This segregation of habitat preferences alone could produce a negative local native-exotic richness relationship and a positive regional pattern without the involvement of biotic interactions. 4. Synthesis. Our findings conflict with established expectations, which come from research predominantly conducted in terrestrial ecosystems. This illustrates the importance of explicitly evaluating underlying mechanisms in diversity-invasibility research and for comparisons across different types of ecosystems. Identification of different drivers of diversity also has direct implications for decisions about management of freshwater plant communities."	USA	Ecology
"Ecological concrete (eco-concrete) can reduce excess nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) in water, but its effectiveness in removing nutrients in marine coastal sediments and the response of sediment microbial communities to its use are largely unknown. In this study, eco-concrete planted with Bruguiera gymnorrhiza was used to remove nutrients in marine coastal sediment. We found that the mean removal efficiencies of sediment total nitrogen and total phosphorus by using planted eco-concrete were 11.50% and 30.31% on day 60, and were higher than those obtained by only using B. gymnorrhiza (7.14% and 7.36%). the Diatoms and bacterial genera Fusibacter and Anoxynatronum (which belong to Firmicutes) increased and became the abundant microbes by day 60 when using planted eco-concrete, indicating their potential roles in nutrient removal. Moreover, the ecoconcrete did not endanger the core microbes in sediment suggesting its environment-friendly character. Our results suggest a potential method to control marine coastal eutrophication."	NonUS	Ecology
"Species delimitation of corals is one of the most challenging issues in coral reef ecology and conservation. Morphology can obscure evolutionary relationships, and molecular datasets are consistently revealing greater within-species diversity than currently understood. Most phylogenetic studies, however, have examined narrow geographic areas and phylogeographic expansion is required to obtain more robust interpretations of within- and among- species relationships. In the case of the blue coral Heliopora, there are currently two valid species (H. coerulea and H. hiberniana) as evidenced by integrated genetic and morphological analyses in northwestern Australia. There are also two distinct genetic lineages of H. coerulea in the Kuroshio Current region that are morphologically and reproductively different from each other. Sampling from all Heliopora spp. across the Indo-Pacific is essential to obtain a more complete picture of phylogeographic patterns. To examine phylogenetic relationships within the genus Heliopora, we applied Multiplexed inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) Genotyping by sequencing (MIG-seq) on > 1287 colonies across the Indo-West Pacific. Maximum likelihood phylogenetic trees indicated the examined Heliopora samples comprise three genetically distinct groups: H. coerulea group, H. hiberniana group, and a new undescribed Heliopora sp. group with further subdivisions within each group. Geographic structuring is evident among the three species with H. hiberniana group found in the Indo-Malay Archipelago and biased toward the Indian Ocean whilst Heliopora sp. was only found in the Kuroshio Current region and Singapore, indicating that this taxon is distributed in the western Pacific and the Indo-Malay Archipelago. Heliopora coerulea has a wider distribution, being across the Indian Ocean and western Pacific. This study highlights the effectiveness of phylogenetic analysis using genome-wide markers and the importance of examining populations across their distribution range to understand localized genetic structure and speciation patterns of corals.</p>"	NonUS	Genetics
"Rockweeds can dominate temperate rocky intertidal habitats and support a diversity of flora and fauna that find refuge underneath the canopy-forming seaweed. Pelvetiopsis californica is an upper intertidal rockweed endemic to California (USA) and Baja California (MEX) with little known about its distribution and abundance, nor its ecological role as a habitat former. We examined long-term changes in the abundance and distribution of P. californica and its effects on the upper shore community, along the coast of California. Similar to patterns observed in other rockweeds globally, P. californica has declined over the past several decades, including extirpation at 30% of sites sampled, clustered around urban centers of southern California, and a large decline in abundance at most sites from a long-term (similar to 20 + years) monitoring program. Currently, P. californica exhibits a patchy distribution, particularly in southern California where it is absent from long stretches of shoreline. In community surveys across a large geographic scale (32 degrees-36 degrees latitude), high zone community composition was significantly different at sites where P. californica was present, even at relatively low cover, than when the alga was absent. Within-site community surveys also showed that communities associated with P. californica were different than when the rockweed was absent, highlighted by a higher diversity of algae and invertebrates. Probable stressors, such as trampling and climate change, are likely to worsen in the future, further reducing P. californica populations. Due to limited reproductive dispersal capabilities and fragmented populations, natural recovery seems unlikely and active restoration may be necessary."	USA	Ecology
"China is the largest mariculture producer in the world. In recent years, pharmaceuticals and pesticides have been widely used in mariculture activities; however, most studies have only focused on the occurrence of limited types of antibiotics and organochlorine pesticides. It is critical to comprehensively investigate the occurrence of pharmaceuticals and pesticides in mariculture areas and assess their potential impacts on ocean ecosystems. In this study, the occurrence, distribution, and ecological risk of 484 compounds, including 296 pesticides, 156 pharmaceuticals, and 32 other substances, in the drainage ditches of culture ponds and raft-culture areas were investigated. A total of 51 compounds were detected in the mariculture area, with total concentrations ranging from 5.4 x 10(2) to 2.0 x 10(4) ng/L at each sampling site. Eleven pesticides, three pharmaceuticals, and five other compounds were detected with detection frequencies of 100%. The cluster analysis indicated that mariculture is a source of herbicide pollution in coastal waters. To assess the ecological risks of the detected compounds, toxicity data collected from the database and predicted from quantitative structure activity relationship (QSAR) models were used to calculate the risk quotients and probabilistic risks. According to the risk quotients, five pollutants, including diuron, ametryn, prometryne, simetryn, and terbutryn, were estimated to pose high risks to marine organisms. The results of the probabilistic risk assessment indicated that only diuron, a biocide used in antifouling paint and mariculture, would have an adverse effect on up to 8% of the aquatic species in nearshore areas. These findings could be helpful in determining the aquatic benchmarks of pesticides and pharmaceuticals in mariculture discharge to promote the sustainable development of mariculture and ecological protection in coastal areas. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Palmyra Atoll, once a WWII U.S. Navy air station, is now a U.S. National Wildlife Refuge with nearly 50 km(2) of coral reef and 275 ha of emergent lands with forests of Pisonia grandis trees and colonies of several bird species. Due to the known elemental and organic contamination from chemicals associated with aviation, power generation and transmission, waste management, and other air station activities, a screening survey to map elemental concentrations was conducted. A map of 1944 Navy facilities was georeferenced and identifiable features were digitized. These data informed a targeted survey of 25 elements in soils and sediment at locations known or suspected to be contaminated, using a hand-held X-ray fluorescence spectrometer. At dozens of locations, concentrations of elements exceeded established soil and marine sediment thresholds for adverse ecological effects. Results were compiled into a publically available geospatial dataset to inform potential remediation and habitat restoration activities."	USA	Conservation
"Healthy coral reefs play a vital role in maintaining biodiversity in tropical marine ecosystems. Remote imaging techniques have facilitated the scientific investigations of these intricate ecosystems, particularly at depths beyond 10mwhere SCUBA diving techniques are not time or cost efficient. With millions of digital images of the seafloor collected using remotely operated vehicles and autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs), manual annotation of these data by marine experts is a tedious, repetitive, and time-consuming task. It takes 10-30 min for a marine expert to meticulously annotate a single image. Automated technology to monitor the health of the oceans would allow for transformational ecological outcomes by standardizing methods to detect and identify species. This paper aims to automate the analysis of large available AUVimagery by developing advanced deep learning tools for rapid and large-scale automatic annotation of marine coral species. Such an automated technology would greatly benefit marine ecological studies in terms of cost, speed, and accuracy. To this end, we propose a deep learning based classificationmethod for coral reefs and report the application of the proposed technique to the automatic annotation of unlabeled mosaics of the coral reef in the Abrolhos Islands, W. A., Australia. Our proposed method automatically quantified the coral coverage in this region and detected a decreasing trend in coral population, which is in line with conclusions drawn by marine ecologists."	NonUS	Technology
"The Arabian Gulf ranks among the world's most arid and warm regions; the land has high salinity levels with many Sabkhas and receives little precipitation. This region holds about one-third of the world's oil supply. Qatar is the leading gas producer worldwide, which raises many concerns about the pollution of the sea, groundwater, and soil. Thus, the Arabian Gulf area has paid particular attention to environmental studies since the environmental status of this region imposed unique biological diversity, and microbial ecology has gained special importance following the identification of promising roles of microorganisms. This review article discusses the microbial ecology at the main habitats of the State of Qatar. We discuss important principles for successful ecological restoration and future perspectives of using biological approaches to solve many problems related to health, the economy, and agriculture. There are at least five microbial communities that have been recognized at the Qatari habitats: marine environment, salt marshes and mangrove forests, the arid lands (including dune communities), wetlands (including pond communities), and Rawdahs (including the Ghaf tree communities). Although, the environmental conditions of this region are almost the same, these habitats are compared with those at other countries of the Arabian Gulf whenever necessary, as each habitat has its own peculiar characteristics. Some case studies are presented to describe the biochemical characterizations of bacterial isolates from soils and leaf surface of native plants, including halophytes and xerophytes at these habitats. These studies rarely went beyond the general identification at species levels. There is a discussion about the possible roles of microorganisms at the rhizosphere, nonrhizosphere, and phyllosphere, and using plant exudates to control microbial activity. However, modern approach (culture-independent methods) addressing these topics has opened the door for deeper investigations, and to explore the roles played by microorganisms at these habitats. These methods have already begun during the last decade as serious step to solve many environmental issues. In the future, it is very likely that microorganisms will be used to tackle many pollution issues, as well as health, agricultural, and economic problems."	NonUS	Ecology
"We reviewed published and unpublished 'vagrant' (herein referred to as 'unusual') records of Sabine's Gull Xema sabini worldwide and discuss these records according to age, marine productivity/fishing grounds, and migration corridors. Of the 151 unusual records, 135 (89%) were in or near areas with high productivity and/or known fishing grounds; 10 out of 14 documented records were young birds in their first or second migration, and the 'unusual' areas identified in this study could have been reached through known migration pathways used by other bird species. The fact that the majority of records are associated with productive/fishing zones (and are also in areas with low or no at-sea effort for bird surveys), and that juveniles and young adults typically migrate further, suggests that some individuals may search for productive areas for wintering outside of the main, or well-known, destinations. Our findings suggest that at least some individuals of Sabine's Gull, rather than being 'disoriented', might be in genuine areas of migration corresponding to their life stage, therefore expanding the known distribution range of this species."	NonUS	Ecology
"We investigated the population genetic structure of the coral reef associated ascidian, Polycarpa aurata throughout the marine region of Wallacea, Indonesia. Four hundred individuals from 12 sampling locations were genotyped at 14 microsatellite loci. We detected strong evidence for population structuring. F'(ST) and F-ST values are high and significant indicating restricted gene flow between populations. Bayesian clustering techniques provided further evidence in support of population genetic divergence, and we did not detect a significant pattern of isolation by distance. We suggest that the extremely heterogeneous environment throughout Wallacea coupled with the short pelagic larval duration is responsible for creating the patterns we report. Differences in habitat type create numerous opportunities for selection to act, the synergistic effects of local adaption, selection and limited larval dispersal promote an increase in the frequency of traits that enhance survival in the immediate environment, meaning that recruits from the local area are favoured over those not from the immediate vicinity. This leads to reproductive isolation, adaptive divergence and finally parapatric speciation. Work such as this allows us to further understand the evolutionary processes that have contributed to creating the most biodiverse marine region on the planet. By demonstrating the existence of population genetic structure and divergence over short distances, we provide support for the centre of origin hypothesis. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	USA	Genetics
"The order in which individuals receive information about wildlife may influence their attitude toward wildlife differently. We explored order effects of a threat message that induced more fear versus a suffering message that elicited more compassion on attitude toward wildlife. Specifically, we focused on bats, a risk-laden species also suffering massive mortalities due to a disease affecting bat populations across the United States. We randomly assigned 1,506 U.S. adults to one of eight message conditions as part of a 2 (message order: suffering -> threat vs. threat -> suffering) x 2 (suffering messages) x 2 (threat messages) between-subjects factorial design or a control (no message) condition. We found a significant two-way interaction between message order and biospheric values on attitude toward bats. For people with high biospheric values, reading a suffering message first led to a more positive attitude than reading a threat message first, whereas reading a threat message first led to a more positive attitude than reading a suffering message first for people with low biospheric values. Compassion but not fear mediated these effects. Theoretical and practical implications are provided."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Green spaces and agronomy have long been used in terrestrial urban environments to help mitigate the negative effects of urbanization on social-ecological systems. However, they represent an unexplored frontier in marine urban environments, which are also central to human-environment interactions in coastal cities. We evaluated the feasibility and potential environmental impacts of integrating small-scale seaweed farming into urban seawalls. We developed and tested the efficacy of a prototype planter unit for cultivating the red, agar-producing seaweed, Hydropuntia edulis, above its typical tidal range on urban seawalls in Singapore. Field trial results suggest that H. edulis can be successfully grown in the mid- and upper-intertidal zones on seawalls by using planters with water-retaining features. However, based on results from life cycle assessment (LCA) and integrated biological models of seaweed production, we found that the choice of materials for constructing planters and their positioning on the seawall were critical in determining net environmental impacts. Farmed seaweeds had an impressive capacity for carbon, nutrient, and metal uptake according to model estimates, but these benefits were outweighed by emissions from energy- and contaminant-intensive materials that are commonly used in seawall eco-engineering. At low tidal heights, farmed seaweeds were also more readily dislodged, potentially leading to greater flux of detrital biomass to adjacent systems. This work highlights both the potential of seaweed farming for enhancing the multifunctionality of urban waterfronts, and the importance of objectively weighing overall environmental consequences of such approaches before advancing them as eco-engineering solutions."	NonUS	Ecology
"Declining hunter participation threatens cultural traditions and public support for conservation, warranting examination of the forces behind the downward trajectory. Access to lands for hunting, an often-cited reason for nonparticipation, may play a critical role in the retention and recruitment of hunters. Meeting the access needs of a diverse hunting constituency requires understanding how hunters use and perceive access opportunities, particularly public-access sites. Given that perceptions of access are entirely place based and degrade with time, traditional postseason survey methods may fail to adequately quantify the value of public access to the hunting constituency. To overcome the potential limitations of postseason surveys, we conducted on-site assessments of hunter perceptions of habitat quality, game abundance, ease of access, and crowding as well as whether the experience met the hunters' expectations and their likelihood to return to hunt. Over 3 y, we interviewed 3,248 parties of which 71.5% were hunting. Most parties (65.9%) reported having no private access within the region of Nebraska where they were interviewed. Parties (67.6%) were largely limited to two or fewer hunters, most of whom were adult males (84.3%) who were, on average, 41.2 y old. The perception of public-access sites was generally positive, but 43.1% of parties indicated that game abundance was below average despite 59.2% of parties seeing game and 37.3% harvesting at least one animal. Similar to other explorations of hunter satisfaction, we found game abundance, and in particular harvest success, had the most consistent relationship with hunter perception of public access. By surveying multiple types of hunters across sites that encompass a range of social and ecological conditions, we gained a broader understanding of how hunters perceive public access in real time, which will help to inform future management decisions to foster and improve public-access programs."	USA	Conservation
"Coral bleaching and various human stressors have degraded the coral reefs of the Comoros Archipelago in the past 40 years and rising atmospheric CO2 levels are predicted to further impact marine habitats. The condition of reefs in the Comoros is poorly known; using SCUBA based methods we surveyed reef condition and resilience to bleaching at sites in Grande Comore and Moheli in 2010 and 2016. The condition of reefs was highly variable, with a range in live coral cover between 6% and 60% and target fishery species biomass between 20 and 500 kg per ha. The vulnerability assessment of reefs to future coral bleaching and their exposure to fishing, soil erosion and river pollution in Moheli Marine Park found that offshore sites around the islets south of the island were least likely to be impacted by these negative pressures. The high variability in both reef condition and vulnerability across reefs in the Park lends itself to spatially explicit conservation actions. However, it is noteworthy that climate impacts to date appear moderate and that local human pressures are not having a major impact on components of reef health and recovery, suggesting these reefs are relatively resilient to the current anthropogenic stresses that they are experiencing."	NonUS	Conservation
"Green sea turtles (Chelonia mydas) switch habitats during their development, moving from pelagic to neritic areas and then commuting between nesting and foraging grounds during adulthood. Due to their predominantly coastal habitats, they are under a range of anthropogenic threats. We monitored turtles incidentally captured in fishing weirs in Ceara state, northeastern Brazil, over a decade and provided an overview of capture rates in the fishery during previous decades. Between 2008 and 2018, 2335 captures were recorded, 76% were only once. Most recaptures (86%) occurred up to six months after the first capture, with a mean growth rate of 6.7 +/- 3.6 cm year(-1). Capture rates varied between years, with the highest rates during the historical period, peaking in 1962 (0.16 turtles day weir(-1)). Between 2008 and 2018, the daily capture rate was 0.07 turtles day weir(-1). Similar to other areas, the use of turtles as a fishery resource seems to have reduced population sizes in the Atlantic Ocean. On the other hand, the intensive monitoring of local weirs provided an opportunity to mobilize the community regarding their conservation, which in turn could have supported the recovery of turtles from a number of distant colonies. The relatively constant and year-round capture of green sea turtles reflects the presence of individuals from different rookeries and demonstrates the importance of the region as a developmental ground for juveniles from different nesting areas, with high growth rates compared with other feeding areas. Partnership with local fishermen and the long-term monitoring of passive nonlethal fishing weirs are key tools in supporting sea turtle conservation."	NonUS	Conservation
"Conservation strategies to sustain endangered green turtle Chelonia mydas populations must categorise and mitigate a range of anthropogenic threats. This study provides first insights into some of the adverse effects of anthropogenic activities on green turtles at a foraging area in New Zealand. Gross necropsies were conducted on 35 immature and sub-adult green turtles that were stranded in northern New Zealand between 2007 and 2013. Results revealed 54% (n = 19) of individuals exhibited human-related trauma, and 63% of these (n = 12) had ingested synthetic marine debris. The predominant plastic items ingested were soft plastics (e.g. single-use food packaging, plastic bags), and white, clear or translucent items. No correlation was observed between curved carapace length and the volume or number of synthetic debris items ingested. Propeller strike injuries were identified in 26% (n = 5) of turtles exhibiting human-related effects, while 10% (n = 2) had evidence of incidental capture in recreational fishing activities. Importantly, within New Zealand waters, anthropogenic effects predominantly associated with plastic ingestion are impacting the green turtle aggregation, and may be an important contributory factor to the stranding of immature and sub-adult green turtles in this region. Consequently, the threats identified in this study should be considered when developing population-specific conservation strategies."	NonUS	Conservation
"Although offshore wind energy development (OWED) offers a much-needed renewable energy alternative to fossil fuels, holistic and effective methods for evaluating environmental impacts on wildlife in both space and time have been lacking. The lengthy environmental compliance process, estimated to incur a 7-10 year permitting timeline [1], has been identified as a significant impediment to offshore energy development in U.S. waters. During operation, seabirds can collide and be displaced by turbines. During episodic pre-operation phases, cetaceans are most heavily impacted acoustically by pile driving (and similarly seismic air gun surveys for oil and gas exploration). The varying nature of impacts in space and time leads us to conclude that sites should be selected in space to minimize long-term operational impacts on seabirds, and timing of surveying and construction activities to be conducted in times of the year when sensitive migratory marine mammals are least present. We developed a novel spatiotemporal decision support framework that interactively visualizes tradeoffs between OWED industry profits and wildlife sensitivities, in both space and time. The framework highlights sites on a map that are the most profitable and least sensitive to seabirds. Within the U.S. Mid-Atlantic study area, the New York Call Areas are particularly well optimized for minimal impact on seabirds with maximal profits to OWED. For a given site, pre-operational activities (e.g. pile driving and seismic air gun surveying) are advised by cetacean sensitivity across months of the year that minimize impacts on migratory cetaceans, particularly those of highest conservation concern such as the North Atlantic right whale (Eubalaena Glacialis). For instance, within optimal sites for the New York Call Area the least impacting months are May and June. Other taxa are certainly affected by OWED and should be incorporated into this framework, but data on their distributions and/or sensitivities is currently less well known. Built with open-source software made publicly available, the authors hope this framework will be extended even more comprehensively into the future as our knowledge on species distributions and OWED sensitivities expands for streamlining environmental compliance."	USA	Technology
"Aim Kelp forests throughout temperate regions of the world serve as foundation species that play a critical role in sustaining the health and function of marine ecosystems but are experiencing declines in abundance due to a loss in resilience as the ocean climate changes. Ocean warming along southeast Australia has already been linked to dramatic losses of kelp species and is contributing to the range expansion and population increases of two species of sea urchin. This research attempts to understand the impact of multiple stressors on the decline in kelps in this region. Location Coastal Waters of Victoria, Southeast Australia. Methods In this study, we use long-term (>20 years) datasets on biological observations across Victorian waters to determine trends in coverage and the impact of multiple environmental variables (oceanography, habitat, and urchin abundances) on two important kelps that serve as foundation species (Phyllospora comosa and Ecklonia radiata) using boosted regression trees. These models were then used to develop predictive distribution models for each species and also to project abundance distributions into the future. Results We found that both kelp species are decreasing in percent coverage over time with multiple environmental variables contributing to these declines, including increasing temperatures, intensifying wave energy, changes in currents and recruitment patterns, and increases in urchin populations. Additionally, future projections of temperature, wave energy, and urchin populations show that both species will continue to decrease across 62%-94% of their range by 2090. Main conclusions Long-term biological datasets allowed us to develop maps of the past, current, and future distributions of these important foundation species, providing valuable information to managers for prioritization of areas for targeted urchin management and restoration of kelps. Understanding the environmental factors affecting their distribution helps guide manager restoration investments in regions where kelp populations are most likely to persist in the future."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"The aims were to identify the effects of growth differentiation factor 9 (GDF-9) on the in vitro development of ovarian preantral follicles (PAFs) of collared peccaries. Ovarian fragments were in vitro cultured for 1 or 7 days without or with inclusion of GDF-9 in the medium (0, 50, 100, or 200 ng/mL). The non-cultured (control) and cultured fragments were evaluated for PAF viability, activation, and cell proliferation. Although there were no differences in the percentage of morphologically normal follicles, the percentage of growing follicles was greater compared to the control in all treatment groups, especially those cultured with 200 ng/mL GDF-9 for 7 days (P < 0.05). The inclusion of GDF-9 in the medium did not interfere with PAF viability (P > 0.05); however, treatment with 200 ng/mL GDF-9 resulted in greater (P < 0.05) cell proliferation in PAFs cultured for 1 or 7 days (similar to 2.5 nucleolar organizing regions - NORs) compared to the follicles of the control group (2.0 NORs). In addition, peccary ovarian cortexes were subjected to PCR analysis and there was detection of the mRNA GDF-9 receptor transcripts of the BMPR2 (type I receptor) and ALK-5 (type II receptor) types. In conclusion, GDF-9, especially at a 200 ng/mL inclusion in the culture medium, was actively involved in the in vitro development of collared peccary PAFs."	NonUS	Genetics
"Accelerated sea-level rise poses a significant threat to coastal habitats, such as salt marshes, which provide critical ecosystem services. Persistence of salt marshes with rising sea levels relies, in part, on vertical accretion. Ecogeomorphic models emphasize the role of plant production in vertical accretion via sediment trapping and belowground organic matter contribution. Thus, changes in plant production can influence saltmarsh persistence with sea-level rise. However, models of marsh accretion do not consider animal-mediated changes in plant production. We tested how 2 marsh crabs, Minuca pugnax and Sesarma reticulatum, which have contrasting effects (facilitation vs. herbivory) on Spartina alterniflora production, may indirectly influence sediment deposition and belowground production, through observational surveys and field manipulation. Minuca facilitated Spartina biomass in some marshes, but not sediment deposition, and had no effect on belowground organic matter contribution, suggesting that in isolation, Minuca has little indirect impact on saltmarsh geomorphic processes. Sesarma reduced Spartina biomass; however, sediment deposition increased, contrary to ecogeomorphic models, likely due to sediment resuspension by Minuca. When Minuca and Sesarma co-occur, the effect on Spartina production and sediment deposition depended on the amount of grazing. When Sesarma grazing is low, Minuca facilitates Spartina growth and mitigates the effect of grazing. However, when Sesarma grazing is high and vegetation is removed, Minuca can resuspend sediment through bioturbation, suggesting the net effect of these species may depend on their relative abundance. This study demonstrates that the effects of plant-animal interactions on marsh resilience against sealevel rise are context dependent."	USA	Ecology
"Species of extant nautiluses (in Nautilus and Allonautilus) have been anecdotally described as opportunistic scavengers. Here, we examine foraging and scavenging behaviors of Nautilus in field and laboratory settings. Given that nautiluses are nektobenthic, solitary animals living in resource-limited habitats, we predict that odor is the predominant cue used to locate prey. Here, we show that nautiluses display a stereotyped set of search postures in the wild. In field and laboratory trials, nautiluses displayed the same stereotyped foraging postures, suggesting it is a natural and functional reflex in nautilus, and can be replicated under controlled conditions. A series of foraging behaviors induced by olfaction is a highly desirable trait to scavenge for food in the deep-sea. Considering the recent conservation initiatives and regulations now in place to protect declining nautilus populations, understanding and describing feeding behaviors and the ecology of nautiluses are a critical component to support conservation efforts."	USA	Ecology
"Background: The cyanobacteria Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus are responsible for around 10% of global net primary productivity, serving as part of the foundation of marine food webs. Heterotrophic bacteria are often co-isolated with these picocyanobacteria in seawater enrichment cultures that contain no added organic carbon; heterotrophs grow on organic carbon supplied by the photolithoautotrophs. For examining the selective pressures shaping autotroph/heterotroph interactions, we have made use of unialgal enrichment cultures of Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus maintained for hundreds to thousands of generations in the lab. We examine the diversity of heterotrophs in 74 enrichment cultures of these picocyanobacteria obtained from diverse areas of the global oceans. Results: Heterotroph community composition differed between clades and ecotypes of the autotrophic 'hosts' but there was significant overlap in heterotroph community composition across these cultures. Collectively, the cultures were comprised of many shared taxa, even at the genus level. Yet, observed differences in community composition were associated with time since isolation, location, depth, and methods of isolation. The majority of heterotrophs in the cultures are rare in the global ocean, but enrichment conditions favor the opportunistic outgrowth of these rare bacteria. However, we found a few examples, such as bacteria in the family Rhodobacteraceae, of heterotrophs that were ubiquitous and abundant in cultures and in the global oceans. We found their abundance in the wild is also positively correlated with that of picocyanobacteria. Conclusions: Particular conditions surrounding isolation have a persistent effect on long-term culture composition, likely from bottlenecking and selection that happen during the early stages of enrichment for the picocyanobacteria. We highlight the potential for examining ecologically relevant relationships by identifying patterns of distribution of culture-enriched organisms in the global oceans."	USA	Ecology
"Conservation of competitively subordinate carnivores presents a difficult challenge because they are limited by dominant competitors. Prey depletion is one of the leading causes of large carnivore decline worldwide, but little is known about the net effect of prey depletion on subordinate carnivores when their dominant competitors are also reduced. African wild dogs are often limited by high densities of dominant competitors, particularly lions. We measured African wild dog density and survival, using mark-recapture models fit to 8 years of data from 425 known individuals in the Greater Kafue Ecosystem, Zambia. The GKE is affected by prey depletion, particularly of large herbivores, and thus the density of lions is significantly lower than ecologically comparable ecosystems. Counter to expectations from mesopredator release theory, wild dog density in GKE was far lower than comparable ecosystems with higher lion and prey density, though annual survival rates were comparable to large and stable populations. Average pack size was small and home range size was among the largest recorded. Our results show that low lion density did not competitively release the GKE wild dog population and we infer that the low density of wild dogs was a product of low prey density. Our results suggest that there is an optimal ratio of prey and competitors at which wild dogs achieve their highest densities. This finding has immediate implications for the conservation of the endangered African wild dog, and broad implications for the conservation of subordinate species affected by resource depletion and intraguild competition."	USA	Conservation
"When and where animals reproduce influences the social, demographic and genetic properties of the groups and populations they live in. We examined the extent to which male spotted hyenas (Crocuta crocuta) coordinate their breeding-group choice. We tested whether their propensity to settle in the same group is shaped by passive processes driven by similarities in their socio-ecological background and genotype or by an adaptive process driven by kin selection. We compared the choices of 148 pairs of same-cohort males that varied in similarity and kinship. We found strong support for both processes. Coordination was highest (70% of pairs) for littermates, who share most cumulative similarity, lower (36%) among peers born in the same group to different mothers, and lowest (7%) among strangers originating from different groups and mothers. Consistent with the kin selection hypothesis, the propensity to choose the same group was density dependent for full siblings and close kin, but not distant kin. Coordination increased as the number of breeding females and male competitors in social groups increased, i.e. when costs of kin competition over mates decreased and benefits of kin cooperation increased. Our results contrast with the traditional view that breeding-group choice and dispersal are predominantly solitary processes."	NonUS	Ecology
"Understanding sources of difference in public attitudes toward wildlife is critical for the design of effective policy instruments. In this article we explored the role of wildlife value orientations and stakeholder group membership (general public versus agricultural producers) in shaping residents support for the natural recolonization of apex predators (black bear, cougar, gray wolf), in Illinois, USA. Results demonstrate differences in attitudes toward recolonization as a function of residents' basic beliefs about the human-wildlife relationship and stakeholder group membership. Results revealed varying degrees of opposition and/or antipathy toward recolonization of apex predators across wildlife values types and stakeholder groups. Individuals that were identified to hold utilitarian beliefs about wildlife (traditionalist orientation) and agricultural producers were found to exhibit the most negative attitudes toward natural recolonization, compared to individuals that believe wildlife have intrinsic rights (mutualist orientation) or members of the general public. Individuals' attitudes toward the recolonization of black bears were found to differ according to their wildlife value orientations, stakeholder group membership, and the combination of the two factors."	USA	HumanWildlife
"The potential role of aquaculture in Canada's Blue Economy strategy has injected new urgency into drafting national legislation to regulate the country's aquaculture sector. This renewed focus on national aquaculture legislation is supported by industry who expect that an aquaculture act will lead to streamlined regulation and state support for aquaculture production and development, but also by environmental non-governmental organizations who seek stronger regulatory governance over an industry that has a long history of socio-ecological conflicts. In this brief commentary, we identify three key challenges to the establishment of a national aquaculture act in Canada and we examine the likely impact of these challenges to the future shape and direction of aquaculture regulation, with implications that extend beyond Canada. We critically reflect on the potential implications of a weak act, one that will not overcome the ongoing socio-ecological conflicts associated with aquaculture in Canada and elsewhere. The most likely outcome will be for these conflicts and demands to be resolved in the courts, which will provide a new critical area for social science research on marine policy."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Infrastructure development can affect avian populations through direct collision mortality. Estimating the exposure of local bird populations to the risk of direct mortality from infrastructure development requires site- and species-specific data, which managers may find difficult to obtain at the scale over which management decisions are made. We quantify the potential exposure of sandhill cranes (Antigone canadensis) to collision with horizontal structures (e.g., transmission lines) within vital wintering grounds of the Middle Rio Grande Valley (MRGV), New Mexico, USA, 2014-2020. Limited maneuverability and visual acuity make sandhill cranes vulnerable to collisions with infrastructure bisecting their flight paths. We used data from 81 global positioning system (GPS)-tagged cranes to estimate the spatially explicit flight height distribution along the MRGV, the passage rate across hypothetical transmission lines, and the resulting exposure rate (exposed passes/crane/day). The exposure rate ranged from 0-0.28 exposed passes/crane/day (median = 0.015) assuming an exposure zone of 7-60 m above ground level, and identified hotspots of potential exposure within the MRGV. Mapped exposure rates can assist in the siting of proposed high-voltage transmission lines, or other infrastructure, to limit effects on sandhill cranes and other avian species at risk of collision. Our approach can be replicated and applied in similar situations where birds are exposed to possible collision with power lines. (c) 2021 The Wildlife Society."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Karst subterranean estuaries (KSEs) extend into carbonate platforms along 12% of all coastlines. A recent study has shown that microbial methane (CH4) consumption is an important component of the carbon cycle and food web dynamics within flooded caves that permeate KSEs. In this study, we obtained high-resolution (similar to 2.5-day) temporal records of dissolved methane concentrations and its stable isotopic content (delta C-13) to evaluate how regional meteorology and hydrology control methane dynamics in KSEs. Our records show that less methane was present in the anoxic fresh water during the wet season (4,361 +/- 89 nM) than during the dry season (5,949 +/- 132 nM), suggesting that the wet season hydrologic regime enhances mixing of methane and other constituents into the underlying brackish water. The C-13 of the methane (-38.1 +/- 1.7) in the brackish water was consistently more C-13-enriched than fresh water methane (-65.4 +/- 0.4 parts per thousand), implying persistent methane oxidation in the cave. Using a hydrologically based mass balance model, we calculate that methane consumption in the KSE was 21-28mgCH(4).m(-2).year(-1) during the 6-month dry period, which equates to similar to 1.4 t of methane consumed within the 102- to 138-km(2) catchment basin for the cave. Unless wet season methane consumption is much greater, the magnitude of methane oxidized within KSEs is not likely to affect the global methane budget. However, our estimates constrain the contribution of a critical resource for this widely distributed subterranean ecosystem. Plain Language Summary Subterranean estuaries occur worldwide where fresh and marine-derived waters mix within coastal aquifers, creating a chemical reaction zone that alters the composition of materials transported to the sea. According to a recent study, methane-a potent greenhouse gas-and the bacteria that feed on it form the basis of a complex food web restricted to cave networks flooded by the subterranean estuary. Questions about the seasonality and magnitude of this methane sink remain unclear. Unprecedented chemical records collected during this study with simultaneous meteorological and hydrological data reveal that methane accumulation is significantly greater during the dry season than during the wet season when rainfall is more prevalent and greater mixing in the coastal aquifer facilitates methane consumption. We estimate that similar to 1.4 t of methane are consumed during a 6-month-long dry period within the similar to 100-km(2) catchment region. This estimate constrains the contribution of a critical energy source for karst subterranean estuary ecosystems."	USA	Ecology
"In this study we tested the current taxonomic model of the trematode superfamily Hemiuroidea, according to which the genus Paraccacladium belongs to the family Accacoeliidae. We reconstructed the phylogeny of the hemiuroid Clade A using novel 28S rRNA gene sequences of Paraccacladium sp., Derogenes varicus, Progonus muelleri and Lampritrema miescheri as well as data available in GenBank. Based on phylogenetic data, the genus Paraccacladium should be assigned to a separate family, the Paraccacladiidae Bray & Gibson, 1977 stat. nov. The morphological differences between the Paraccacladiidae and the Accacoeliidae are the absence of a uroproct, anteriorly directed diverticula of intestinal caeca, and the position of Mehlis' gland, posterior or postero-lateral to the ovary. Phylogenetic analysis indicates a sister relationship between the Derogenidae and the Sclerodistomidae. It also shows that the Paraccacladiidae, on the one hand, and a group of families, the Accacoeliidae, Hirudinellidae and Syncoeliidae, on the other, share the most recent common ancestor. Our data support the hypothesis that the genus Lampritrema is affiliated to the Hirudinellidae. Genetic divergence between North Atlantic and North Pacific isolates of D. varicus was also determined."	NonUS	Genetics
"Knowing the ecology of game species is important to define sustainable hunting pressure and to plan management actions aimed to maintain viable populations. Common pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) is one of the main gamebird species in Europe and North America, despite its native range extending from the Caucasus to Eastern China. This research aimed to define the environmental variables shaping the spatial distribution of male pheasants and to estimate their breeding density in an agroecosystem of northern Italy. During the breeding season, 2015, we carried out 372 point counts with unlimited distances, randomly placed following a stratified sampling survey design. The habitat requirements of the pheasant were evaluated following a presence vs. availability approach, using environmental variables related to land use cover and landscape configuration. We built generalized linear models with a binary distribution, selecting variables following an information-theoretic approach. Densities were estimated through both conventional and multiple-covariate distance sampling. We estimated a density of 1.45 males/km(2), with 4.26 males/km(2) in suitable areas and 0.91 males/km(2) in unsuitable ones. We found pheasants in areas with meadows and tree plantations, which were used to find food and refuges from predators and bad weather conditions. Similarly, woodlands have a positive effect on species occurrence, whereas arable lands were avoided, specifically maize and paddy fields. We found little evidence that landscape configuration affects pheasant occurrence. We found pheasants to be negatively affected by the length of edges between woodlands and arable lands, whereas edges between woodlands and grasslands seem to be beneficial for the species. These findings could help landscape and wildlife managers to plan habitat improvement actions useful to maintain self-sustaining populations of this species, by increasing cover of woodlands, meadows, and tree plantations."	NonUS	Ecology
"Marine resources stewardships are progressively becoming more receptive to an effective incorporation of both ecosystem and environmental complexities into the analytical frameworks of fisheries assessment. Understanding and predicting marine fish production for spatially and demographically complex populations in changing environmental conditions is however still a difficult task. Indeed, fisheries assessment is mostly based on deterministic models that lack realistic parameterizations of the intricate biological and physical processes shaping recruitment, a cornerstone in population dynamics. We use here a large metapopulation of a harvested fish, the European hake (Merluccius merluccius), managed across transnational boundaries in the northwestern Mediterranean, to model fish recruitment dynamics in terms of physics-dependent drivers related to dispersal and survival. The connectivity among nearby subpopulations is evaluated by simulating multi-annual Lagrangian indices of larval retention, imports, and self-recruitment. Along with a proxy of the regional hydroclimate influencing early life stages survival, we then statistically determine the relative contribution of dispersal and hydroclimate for recruitment across contiguous management units. We show that inter-annual variability of recruitment is well reproduced by hydroclimatic influences and synthetic connectivity estimates. Self-recruitment (i.e., the ratio of retained locally produced larvae to the total number of incoming larvae) is the most powerful metric as it integrates the roles of retained local recruits and immigrants from surrounding subpopulations and is able to capture circulation patterns affecting recruitment at the scale of management units. We also reveal that the climatic impact on recruitment is spatially structured at regional scale due to contrasting biophysical processes not related to dispersal. Self-recruitment calculated for each management unit explains between 19% and 32.9% of the variance of recruitment variability, that is much larger than the one explained by spawning stock biomass alone, supporting an increase of consideration of connectivity processes into stocks assessment. By acknowledging the structural and ecological complexity of marine populations, this study provides the scientific basis to link spatial management and temporal assessment within large marine metapopulations. Our results suggest that fisheries management could be improved by combining information of physical oceanography (from observing systems and operational models), opening new opportunities such as the development of short-term projections and dynamic spatial management."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Following declines in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations during the 19th century, many areas throughout the southeastern United States were restocked from various sources. As a result, some populations remain genetically distinct, and phenotypic traits of source populations, including breeding chronology, have been conserved. For example, average conception dates vary by >= 60 days between populations within some Alabama, USA, counties. Although deer have achieved and maintained sustainable densities across much of the southeastern United States for several decades, it is unclear whether this restocking legacy has demographic consequences relevant to management. Therefore, we analyzed a data set containing information on 270 yearling (1.5 yr old) and 2,116 adult (>= 2.5 yr old) female deer collected during 1995-2017 to determine potential effects of breeding chronology on in utero productivity. Parameter estimates from a generalized linear mixed model indicated yearling productivity decreased approximately 16% (95% CL = 0-29%) for each 30-day increase in mean site-specific parturition date. We did not observe a similar relationship for adults. We believe the relationships we observed for yearlings may result from an interaction between parturition and plant phenology. Specifically, on sites with relatively late parturition dates, fawns are born near the end of the growing season when suboptimal nutritional conditions may negatively affect productivity during their first year of life. Variation in reproductive output of large ungulates is primarily driven by young females, so managers should be aware that productivity of late-breeding deer populations may be less than average, especially if those populations are behaving in a density-dependent manner. In addition, these findings emphasize the importance of considering the potential demographic implications of wildlife translocations resulting from differences in timing of life-history traits. (c) 2019 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Genetics
"A critical component of textbooks is fair representation of the material they cover. Within conservation biology, fair coverage is particularly important given Earth's breadth of species and diversity of ecosystems. However, research on species tends to be biased towards certain taxonomic groups and geographic areas and their associated ecosystems, so it is possible that textbooks may exhibit similar biases. Considering the possibility of bias, our goal was to evaluate contemporary conservation biology textbooks to determine if they are representative of Earth's biodiversity. We found that textbooks did not accurately reflect Earth's biodiversity. Species, ecosystems, and continents were unevenly represented, few examples mentioned genetic diversity, and examples of negative human influence on the environment outweighed positive examples. However, in terms of aquatic versus terrestrial representation, textbooks presented a representative sample. Our findings suggest that modern conservation biology textbooks are biased in their coverage, which could have important consequences for educating our next generation of scientists and practitioners."	USA	Conservation
"Author summary NNV is one of the most contagious and economically devastating viruses of marine fish, which lead to severe central nervous system (CNS) damage. Because of the functional diversity and highly complex anatomical and cellular composition of the CNS, it is hard to identify the specific type of cell targeted by NNV, and to decipher the host immune response. In this study, we conducted single-cell RNA-seq analysis of the midbrain of healthy and RGNNV-infected fish and identified 35 transcriptionally distinct cell subtypes, including 28 neuronal and seven non-neuronal cell types. An evaluation of the subpopulations of immune cells revealed that macrophages were enriched in RGNNV-infected fish, and the transcriptional profiles of macrophages indicated an acute cytokine and inflammatory response. Unsupervised pseudotime analysis of immune cells showed that microglia transformed into M1-type activated macrophages to produce cytokines to reduce the damage to nerve tissue caused by the virus. Finally, we found that RGNNV targeted GLU1 and GLU3 neuronal cells, and we screened for genes that cause GLU1 and GLU3 cell vacuole morphology changes and death. These data provided a comprehensive transcriptional perspective of the grouper midbrain and the basis for further research on how viruses infect the teleost CNS. Viral nervous necrosis (VNN) is an acute and serious fish disease caused by nervous necrosis virus (NNV) which has been reported massive mortality in more than fifty teleost species worldwide. VNN causes damage of necrosis and vacuolation to central nervous system (CNS) cells in fish. It is difficult to identify the specific type of cell targeted by NNV, and to decipher the host immune response because of the functional diversity and highly complex anatomical and cellular composition of the CNS. In this study, we found that the red spotted grouper NNV (RGNNV) mainly attacked the midbrain of orange-spotted grouper (Epinephelus coioides). We conducted single-cell RNA-seq analysis of the midbrain of healthy and RGNNV-infected fish and identified 35 transcriptionally distinct cell subtypes, including 28 neuronal and 7 non-neuronal cell types. An evaluation of the subpopulations of immune cells revealed that macrophages were enriched in RGNNV-infected fish, and the transcriptional profiles of macrophages indicated an acute cytokine and inflammatory response. Unsupervised pseudotime analysis of immune cells showed that microglia transformed into M1-type activated macrophages to produce cytokines to reduce the damage to nerve tissue caused by the virus. We also found that RGNNV targeted neuronal cell types was GLU1 and GLU3, and we found that the key genes and pathways by which causes cell cytoplasmic vacuoles and autophagy significant enrichment, this may be the major route viruses cause cell death. These data provided a comprehensive transcriptional perspective of the grouper midbrain and the basis for further research on how viruses infect the teleost CNS."	NonUS	Genetics
"The present study aims to examine physiological and biochemical response of three commercial fish species (Dicentrarchus labrax; Platichthys flesus and Solea solea), over contrasting environmental dynamics: an extremely dry (2012) and flood (2014) years, in a shallow temperate southern European estuary, the Mondego Estuary (Portugal). Physiological and biochemical biomarkers were evaluated by a principal component analysis (PCA), which allowed to conclude that severe climatic events affected the set of fish species analyzed, revealing two distinct annual brain antioxidant responses. The drought episode affected the physiological state of the organisms, as well as increased brain antioxidant potential, strongly associated with fluctuations in environmental drivers (salinity and dissolved oxygen), however, ROS have not been effectively neutralized by antioxidant defence system causing lipid peroxidation. During flood episode was stated a general depletion of the antioxidant potential in the analyzed fish species, affected by interactions with chemical compounds, increased by a combination of high precipitation and associated runoff, probably, increasing nutrient and contaminant load at the Mondego estuary. Nevertheless, lipid peroxidation remained low, related to the action of non-enzymatic antioxidants, since that the studied fish species had optimal physiological status and high nutritive reserves. According to the present work we consider that brain enzymatic depletion may be organ-specific, looking to the greater vulnerability of brain's proteins to degradation compared to lipids. The role of enzymatic mobilization on fish brains is not extensively yet known, but our results suggest that brain seems to be metabolic sensitive to salinity and dissolved oxygen fluctuations. This is the first approach made to evaluate the physiological and biochemical responses of the brain of aquatic organisms' to extreme climatic events and to establish reference values to determine the effects of extreme climate events to aquatic species."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Some jurisdictions in the eastern United States have reduced harvest of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) because of perceived declines in recruitment and population size over the last decade. Although the restoration of American black bears (Ursus americanus) and the colonization of coyotes (Canis latrans) have increased fawn predation in some areas, limited information exists on how temporally dynamic resources and weather influence fawn survival. Therefore, we evaluated fawn survival probability, cause specific mortality, and if factors such as oak (Quercus spp.) mast abundance, winter severity, precipitation, and landscape composition influenced mortality risk on Marine Corps Base Quantico in northern Virginia, USA, from 2008 to 2019. We tracked 248 fawns outfitted with very high frequency radio-collars and predation was the leading cause of mortality (n = 42; 45%). We estimated survival to 133 days and survival pooling all years (2008-2019) was 0.50 (95% CI = 0.42-0.60). Increased annual red oak (Quercus spp.) mast abundance from the previous fall reduced mortality hazard for fawns. The longevity of our study revealed a link between fawn survival and a specific maternal resource (red oak mast) only available during gestation. Our results highlight the importance of oak mast in eastern deciduous forests and, more broadly, overwinter maternal condition on white-tailed deer recruitment."	USA	Ecology
"Division of labour, in terms of providing for offspring, in obligate cooperatively breeding mammalian species is poorly understood. To understand offspring provisioning in a cooperatively breeding canid, we analysed a long-term dataset comprising 22 African wild dog, Lycaon pictus, denning events (nine packs over nine consecutive years). We investigated the effects of sex, age class, social status, and pack size on the likelihood and frequency of regurgitating food to pups at the den. We found that the interaction of social status and pack size affected the likelihood of regurgitation. Specifically, when in a large (> 15) pack, dominant individuals were less likely to regurgitate than subordinate individuals. However, in smaller (<= 15) packs, dominant individuals were more likely to regurgitate than subordinate individuals. We also found that the interaction of age and pack size affected the frequency of regurgitation. Specifically, in large packs, yearlings regurgitated more frequently per observation period than adults. Contrastingly, in smaller packs, adults regurgitated more frequently. Sex did not affect pup provisioning. We suggest that these contrasting patterns of helping are best explained by a strong selection pressure for individual behaviour that results in larger pack sizes in this species. When in larger packs, costs are shared as the division of labour spreads amongst individuals. In smaller packs, a division of labour requires individuals that already experience costs (such as reproduction) to be further burdened by provisioning. Overall, our results support that the need for more helpers to care for offspring contributes to the evolutionary consequence of an inverse density dependence."	NonUS	Ecology
"Peptidoglycan recognition protein (PGRP) plays a vital role in invertebrate innate immunity system as a specific pattern recognition receptor for peptidoglycan. Bivalves possess various PGRP systems for self-defense; however, it has not been characterized in razor clam Sinonovacula constricta. In this study, eight PGRP coding sequences were identified and analyzed from S. constricta genome, which are designated as ScPGRP-S1, ScPGRP-S2, ScPGRP-S3, ScPGRP-S4, ScPGRP-S5, ScPGRP-S6, ScPGRP-S7, ScPGRP-S8. The results of molecular evolutionary analyses showed that all eight ScPGRP genes were highly conserved and exhibited a typical PGRP/amidase_2 domain as PGRP genes in other mollusks. Moreover, the presence of signal peptides was predicted in ScPGRP-S2, ScPGRP-S3 and ScPRP-S6, while a transmembrane structure only existed in ScPGRP-S6. Notably, a tertiary structure analysis indicated that no disulfide bond was observed in ScPGRP-S5 and ScPGRP-S7. The mRNA transcripts analysis of ScPGRPs revealed that the high expression patterns of ScPGRP-S1 and ScPGRP-S4 were found in mantle, adductor muscle and foot, while those of ScPGRP-S2, ScPGRP-S3 and ScPGRP-S6 were observed in hepatopancreas. Furthermore, the temporal expression profiles of ScPGRPs in the hepatopancreas were analyzed by qPCR after Gram-negative Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus challenges. The mRNA expressions of ScPGRP-S2, ScPGRP-S3 and ScPGRP-S6 could be induced by V. parahaemolyticus and S. aureus. Overall, our findings indicated that ScPGRPs were involved in the immune defense against invaders, which constituted a comprehensive understanding of the potential role of PGRP genes in S. constricta."	NonUS	Genetics
"The Himalayan red panda (Ailurus fulgens), a recently confirmed distinct species in the red panda genus, is distributed in Nepal, India, Bhutan, and south Tibet. Nepal represents the westernmost distribution of the Himalayan red panda. This study aims to determine important habitat features influencing the distribution of red panda and recommend possible habitat corridors. This manuscript described current potential habitat of 3,222 km(2) with the relative abundance of 3.34 signs/km in Nepal. Aspect, canopy cover, bamboo cover, and distance to water were the important habitat attributes. It suggested five potential corridors in western Nepal. Overall, the study has important implications for conservation of the Himalayan red panda in western distribution range."	NonUS	Conservation
"Migratory organisms have their own life histories that efficiently link multiple ecosystems. Therefore, comprehensive understanding of migration ecologies of these organisms is essential for both species conservation and ecosystem management. However, monitoring migration at fine spatiotemporal scales, especially in open marine systems, often requires huge costs and effort. Recently, environmental DNA (eDNA) techniques that utilize DNA released from living organisms into their environment became available for monitoring wild animals without direct handling. In this study, we conducted an eDNA survey for understanding marine migration of an endemic fish species, Shishamo smelt (Spirinchus lanceolatus). We examined 1) seasonal habitat changes in coastal regions and 2) environmental factors potentially driving the migration of this species. The eDNA concentrations along a 100 km-long coastline exhibited spatiotemporal variation, suggesting that this species shifts their habitat away from nearshore areas between spring and summer. We also found a significantly negative association between the eDNA concentration and sea surface temperature. That finding suggests that the offshore migration of this species is associated with increased sea surface temperature. This study reveals new aspects of S. lanceolatus life history in coastal regions. Together with our previous eDNA study on the freshwater migration of S. lanceolatus, this study illustrates the potential of eDNA techniques for understanding the whole life history of this migratory species."	NonUS	Ecology
"Bisphenol analogues (BPs), triclocarban (TCC), and triclosan (TCS) are well-known environmental endocrine disrupters. Many studies have characterized their occurrence in the freshwater environment. However, their environmental behaviors in the coastal marine environment remain poorly understood. Here, matched seawater and sediment samples were collected from East China Sea, and analyzed for 13 BPs (including halogenated derivatives of bisphenol A), TCC, and TCS. Bisphenol A (BPA; mean 23 ng/L) was the predominant BP in sea -waters, followed by tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA; 2.3 ng/L) and bisphenol S (BPS; 2.2 ng/L). Seawater con-centrations of TCS (<LOD-8.7 ng/L) were much higher (p < 0.01) than that of TCC (<LOD-0.33 ng/L). In sediments BPA was still the major BP (mean 13 ng/g dw, dry weight), followed by bisphenol F (1.6 ng/g dw) and BPS (0.69 ng/g dw). All sediment samples contained measurable TCC (0.12-6.6 ng/g dw), while TCS was oc-casionally detected. For the first time, this study reports the environmental occurrence of bisphenol M and 4,4 '- sulfonylbis (2-aminophenol) (a first discovered BPS analogue) in seawaters and sediments. Spatially, inshore seawater and sediment samples contained higher (p < 0.01) BPA and BPS concentrations, compared with offshore samples. The mean log-transformed sediment-seawater partitioning coefficients (log Koc) ranged from 2.3 (TBBPA) to 4.0 (TCC). The log Koc values of BPA, BPS, and BPAF were lower than those previously reported in the freshwater environment. Overall, this study provides first data on the spatial distribution patterns and partitioning behaviors of BPs, TCC, and TCS in marine environment."	NonUS	Ecology
"Local populations of marine benthic macro-invertebrates with planktonic larvae are believed to be in source-sink relationships via larval dispersal in a regional population complex. Practically, such a region is definable only after connectivity of constituent local populations is explored. Numerical simulations abound for hydrodynamic connectivity by larvae between local/regional populations. Empirical studies have scarcely integrated inter-local connectivity and intra-local population dynamics into demographic connectivity analysis. I review the current research and indicate fundamental and technical problems to demonstrate that some source-sink systems in intertidal shores, which are most accessible among benthic habitats, are a good model. The challenge in benthic source-sink research comes from that existent local populations may not be self-sustaining because of low larval self-seeding rates and/or low benthos' survival rates and yet can persist as latent sinks. They may receive larvae leaking from sources at good-quality habitat patches with stationary larval retention areas for self-recruitment. On an intertidal sandflat in an estuary-coastal ocean region, Kyushu, Japan during 1979-2019, the population of a trochid gastropod with 3- to 9-day larval duration became extinct and recovered. The extinction was caused by sediment destabilization by a callianassid shrimp population which increased in the early 1980s. The gastropod recovery was owing to the shrimp decline by stingray predation and the transport of larvae from some self-sustainable populations with lower shrimp densities 30 km away. It was estimated that the gastropod population before the shrimp proliferation on that sandflat might be a latent sink requiring allochthonous larval subsidy due to epi-benthic predation on juveniles."	NonUS	Ecology
"Bivalve relevance for ecosystem functioning and human food security emphasize the importance of predictions of mussel performance under different climate stressors. Here, we address the effect of a latitudinal gradient of temperature and food availability on the fecundity of the Mediterranean mussel to try to better parameterize environmental forcing over reproductive output. We show that temperature plays a major role, acting as a switching on-off mechanism for gametogenesis, while food availability has a lower influence but also modulates the number of gametes produced. Temperature and food availability also show different effects over fecundity depending on the temporal scale evaluated. Our results support the view that the gametogenesis responds non-linearly with temperature and chlorophyll concentration, an issue that is largely overlooked in growth, production and energy budgets of bivalve populations, leading to predictive models that can overestimate the capability of the mussel's populations to deal with climate change future scenarios."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"To effectively combat the biodiversity crisis, we need ambitious targets and reliable indicators to accu-rately track trends and measure conservation impact. In Canada, the Living Planet Index (LPI) has been adapted to produce a national indicator by both World Wildlife Fund-Canada (Canadian Living Planet Index; C-LPI) and Environment and Climate Change Canada (Canadian Species Index) to provide insight into the status of Canadian wildlife, by evaluating temporal trends in verte-brate population abundance. The indicator includes data for just over 50% of Canadian vertebrate species. To assess whether the current dataset is representative of the distribution of life history char-acteristics of Canadian wildlife, we analyzed the representation of species-specific biotic variables (i.e., body size, trophic level, lifespan) for vertebrates within the C-LPI compared to native vertebrates lacking LPI data. Generally, there was considerable overlap in the distribution of biotic variables for species in the C-LPI compared to native Canadian vertebrate species lacking LPI data. Nevertheless, some differences among distributions were found, driven in large part by discrepancy in the represen-tation of fishes-where the C-LPI included larger-bodied and longer-lived species. We provide rec-ommendations for targeted data collection and additional analyses to further strengthen the applicability, accuracy, and representativity of biodiversity indicators."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Following a multi-decadal tagging program at loggerhead nesting areas in Greece, 28 individual turtles have been identified with reproductive longevities greater than 21 yrs, ranging from 22 to 33 yrs. Continuation of this long-term tagging program, along with improvement of tag retention through usage of PIT tags, are expected to increase the herein reported maximum reproductive longevity of loggerhead turtles."	NonUS	Conservation
"Sandeels are an ecologically important group of fishes; they are a key part of the food chain serving as food for marine mammals, seabirds and fish. Sandeels are further targeted by a large industrial fishery, which has led to concern about ecosystem effects. In the North Sea, the lesser sandeel Ammodytes marinus is by far the most prevalent species of sandeel in the fishery. Management of sandeel in the North Sea plus the Kattegat is currently divided into seven geographical areas, based on subtle differences in demography, population dynamics and results from simulations of larval dispersal. However, little is known about the underlying genetic population structure. In this study, we used 2,522 SNPs derived from restriction site-associated DNA sequencing (RADseq) typed in 429 fish representing four main sandeel management areas. Our main results showed (a) a lack of a clear spatially defined genetic structure across the majority of genetic markers and (b) the existence of a group of at least 13 SNPs under strong linkage disequilibrium which together separate North Sea sandeel into three haplotype clusters, suggestive of one or more structural variants in the genome. Analyses of the spatial distribution of these putative structural variants suggest at least partial reproductive isolation of sandeel in the western management area along the Scottish coast, supporting a separate management. Our results highlight the importance of the application of a large number of markers to be able to detect weak patterns of differentiation. This study contributes to increasing the genetic knowledge of this important exploited species, and results can be used to improve our understanding of population dynamics and stock structure."	NonUS	Genetics
"Protected areas are important for preventing biodiversity declines, yet indicators of species' trends in protected areas rarely include threatened species. We use data from the first national Threatened Species Index developed in Australia to report on trends for threatened and near-threatened birds inside and outside terrestrial and marine protected areas. We adopted the Living Planet Index to calculate trends for 39 bird taxa at 16,742 monitoring sites (11,539 inside and 5,203 outside PAs) between 1985 and 2016. At a continental scale, the overall decline in the national index was smaller inside protected areas (66% decrease in average population abundance) than outside (77%), although after 2000 declines were greater within (36%) versus outside (26%) protected areas. Five out of seven jurisdictions showed similar switching in patterns over time. Protected areas initially had a greater net positive effect on trends of more imperiled birds than less imperiled birds, but between 2000 and 2016 declines of the most imperiled birds were greater inside protected areas than outside. Our analyses suggest that the effectiveness of Australia's protected area network at improving trends in threatened species has weakened, and support the hypothesis that trends for terrestrial birds outside PAs might be improving due to increased conservation efforts on private land. Although this study represents the most comprehensive collation of threatened species population time series and trends ever for Australia, the number of monitoring sites inside PAs was double that outside PAs, even though on average, more than 70% of threatened bird distributions occur outside PAs, with important gaps in monitoring across space, time and taxa that need to be filled to fully understand the effectiveness of public and private conservation actions at a national level. The results underline the importance of active management plus monitoring to track and report on long-term trends across species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Although ungulates are the main prey of wolves (Canis lupus) throughout their range, substantial dietary diversity may allow wolves to persist even when ungulates are declining or rare. Alexander Archipelago wolves (Canis lupus ligoni) inhabit distinct mainland and island biogeographic units, each with a unique assemblage of available prey. We quantified biogeographic variability in wolf diets across the archipelago using DNA metabarcoding of prey in 860 wolf scats collected during 2010-2018 in 12 study sites. We hypothesized that wolves would increase their dietary diversity and niche breadth as the proportion of ungulate species in their diets decreased, but that this could be mediated by the availability of coastal resources. Application of DNA metabarcoding achieved fine taxonomic resolution of prey remains and identified 55 diet items representing species from 42 genera and 29 families, many previously undetected in coastal wolf diets. Overall, ungulates made up the largest proportion of wolf diets but were also most variable between study sites (occurrence per item index [O/I] = 0.130-0.851). On islands, Sitka black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were the most consumed ungulate species, whereas moose (Alces alces) and mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) contributed more to mainland wolf diets. Wolves responded to biogeographical variation in availability of their primary prey by altering their foraging patterns. Wolves increased the number and diversity of species consumed and widened their dietary niche as the proportion of ungulates in their diet declined rather than prey switch to one or few individual diet items. Across all study sites combined, beaver (Castor canadensis; O/I = 0.125), marine mammals (O/I = 0.113), and black bears (Ursus americanus; O/I = 0.067) were important alternate prey. In areas where ungulates had become scarce, sea otters (Enhydra lutris) were particularly important, in one case even becoming the primary diet item suggesting that the ongoing expansion of sea otter populations postreintroduction restores an important food source for these cryptic predators. Here, we show extensive variation in the diet of wolves and elucidate regional consumer-resource interactions across an archipelagic landscape."	USA	Ecology
"Paleobiologists tend to use dietary information as an ecological indicator because diet is a fundamental link between an organism and its environment. However, the ecological information from fossilized hard tissues is often difficult to interpret, because links between environment, diet, and hard tissue biology are insufficiently studied in modern communities. To address this dilemma, we investigated dietary proxies commonly used by paleobiologists in a 4-ruminant community from the French Alps. Dental microwear texture analyses are applied to 82 specimens of roe deer, red deer, chamois, and mouflons. Infra-tooth serial enamel stable carbon and oxygen isotope analyses of the structurally bound carbonate were applied on eleven specimens, with isotope-based niche reconstructions, and inverse modeling of original seasonally variable oxygen isotope inputs. While microwear complexity largely overlaps, both inter-individual dispersion of complexity and individual heterogeneity of complexity together with the anisotropy track dietary differences. The red deer is likely more engaged in grazing than the two bovids, which both plot as mixed feeders. When combined, dental microwear texture and carbon stable isotope analyses accurately reflect known ecological separation between the chamois and the roe deer. Both stable isotopes suggest niche separation by increasing enrichment from roe deer to red deer, to chamois; mouflons appear to feed as generalists. In roe deer, which shows the highest enamel oxygen isotope range (5.7 parts per thousand), variation is nevertheless constrained compared to oxygen isotope ranges observed in regional precipitation, where the mean annual range reaches 9.9 parts per thousand. However, through inverse modeling we estimate seasonal input ranges that average 9.7 parts per thousand, a result strikingly similar to regional values. Altogether, our data demonstrate that given appropriate sampling strategies and modeling approaches, microwear and isotopic data can be effective tools for demonstrating niche separation among multiple sympatric herbivorous taxa."	NonUS	Ecology
"Inferences of population genetic structure are of great importance to the fields of ecology and evolutionary biology. The program structure has been widely used to infer population genetic structure. However, previous studies demonstrated that uneven sampling often leads to wrong inferences on hierarchical structure. The most widely used Delta K method tends to identify the uppermost hierarchy of population structure. Recently, four alternative statistics (MEDMEDK, MEDMEAK, MAXMEDK and MAXMEAK) were proposed, which appear to be more accurate than the previously used methods for both even and uneven sampling data. However, the lack of easy-to-use software limits the use of these appealing new estimators. Here, we developed a web-based user-friendly software STRUCTURESELECTOR to calculate the four appealing alternative statistics together with the commonly used Ln Pr(X vertical bar K) and Delta K statistics. STRUCTURESELECTOR accepts the result files of STRUCTURE, ADMIXTURE or FASTSTRUCTURE as input files. It reports the ''best'' K for each estimator, and the results are available as HTML or tab separated tables. The program can also generate graphical representations for specific K, which can be easily downloaded from the server. The software is freely available at http://lmme.qdio.ac.cn/StructureSelector/."	NonUS	Technology
"Eighty-three surface sediments were collected to investigate the element concentration based sediment pollution and potential ecological risk status of the Pulicat lagoon, southeast coast of India. The textural characteristics, Fe and Mn concentration in the surface sediments are chiefly controlled by the confluence of riverine inputs and vicinity of the marine environment. The varied distribution of CaCO3 concentration is due to the depth of the lagoon followed by the sand and silty sand characteristics of the substratum. The surface sediments are derived from riverine sources. Sediment Pollution Index (SPI), Potential Ecological Risk Index of the sediments suggests that they are falling under less polluted and low potential ecological risk category."	NonUS	Ecology
"Despite the economic and ecological importance of corals' skeletal structure, as well as their predicted vulnerability to future climate change, few studies have examined the skeletal mechanical properties at the nanoscale. As climate change is predicted to alter coral growth and physiology, as well as increase mechanical stress events (e.g., bioerosion, storm frequency), it is crucial to understand how skeletal mechanical properties change with environmental conditions. Moreover, while material properties are intimately linked to the chemical composition of the skeleton, no previous study has examined mechanical properties alongside carbonate geochemical composition. Using Porites coral cores from a wide range of reef environments (Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan), we correlated coral's micro-mechanical properties with chemical composition. In contrast to previous mechanical measurements of reef-building corals, we document unprecedented variability in the hardness, stiffness, and micro-cracking stress of Porites corals across reef environments, which may significantly decrease the structural integrity of reef substrate. Corals from environments with low salinity and high sedimentation had higher organic content and fractured at lower loads, suggesting that skeletal organic content caused enhanced embrittlement. Within individual coral cores, we observed seasonal variability in skeletal stiffness, and a relationship between high sea surface temperature, increased stiffness, and high-density. Regionally, lower Sr/Ca and higher Mg/Ca coincided with decreased stiffness and hardness, which is likely driven by increased amorphous calcium carbonate and skeletal organic content. If the coral is significantly embrittled, as measured here in samples from Singapore, faster erosion is expected. A decrease in skeletal stiffness will decrease the quality of reef substrate, enhance the rate of bioerosion by predators and borers, and increase colony dislodgement, resulting in widespread loss of structural complexity."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Diet analysis is an essential part in understanding the biology of a species and functioning of ecosystems. Traditional morphological identification of undigested remains in the scats and molecular analyses of prey species' DNA have previously been used to assess diet. In the present study, caracal diet in the Abbasabad Wildlife Refuge, Central Iran, was investigated using both molecular and morphological methods. We collected 22 scat samples from caracal dens in the region. Feces were washed on sieves and their remaining components were morphologically identified. We also targeted a 307-base pair fragment of the cytochrome b gene to amplify and sequence the species' DNA. Morphological analyses revealed that 76% of the diet comprised rodent species. We identified a total of nine prey taxa using the molecular method, including six rodents, one hare, one hedgehog and one wild goat. There was a general agreement between the molecular and morphological results; however, molecular methods tended to allow a better identification of the prey species. Therefore, the DNA-based approach acts as a valuable complement to current morphological methods in the study of a rare felid's diet when no hair reference library exists."	NonUS	Ecology
"Prescribed burning has the potential to improve habitat for species that depend on pyric ecosystems or other early successional vegetation types. For species that occupy diverse plant communities over the extent of their range, response to disturbances such as fire might vary based on post-disturbance vegetation dynamics among plant communities. Although responses of snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) to fire have been studied in conifer-dominated forests in northern parts of the species' range, there is a lack of information on snowshoe hare habitat use in fire-dependent communities in southern parts of their range. We used global positioning system (GPS) and very high frequency (VHF) radio-collars to monitor the habitat use of 32 snowshoe hares in a scrub-oak (Quercus ilicifolia)-pitch pine (Pinus rigida) barrens complex in northeastern Pennsylvania where prescribed fire has been used for habitat restoration. The area contained stands that underwent prescribed burning 1-6 years prior to our study. Also, we investigated fine-scale determinants of habitat use within stands. We found that regardless of season, hares did not select for areas that had been burned within 6 years prior. Hares primarily used stands of older scrub oak, conifer, or hardwoods, which contained dense understory vegetation and canopy cover. Hare habitat use also was positively associated with stand edges. Our results suggest that hares do not respond to prescribed burning of scrub oak in the short-term. In addition, by focusing on structural determinants of habitat use, rather than broad-scale characteristics such as stand type, management strategies for snowshoe hares can be adapted over the extent of their range despite the multitude of different land cover types across which the species occurs. (c) 2017 The Wildlife Society."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Reliable and efficient avian monitoring tools are required to identify population change and then guide conservation initiatives. Autonomous recording units (ARUs) could increase both the amount and quality of monitoring data, though manual analysis of recordings is time consuming. Machine learning could help to analyze these audio data and identify focal species, though few ornithologists know how to cater this tool for their own projects. We present a workflow that exemplifies how machine learning can reduce the amount of expert review time required for analyzing audio recordings to detect a secretive focal species (Sora; Porzana carolina). The deep convolutional neural network that we trained achieved a precision of 97% and reduced the amount of audio for expert review by similar to 66% while still retaining 60% of Sora calls. Our study could be particularly useful, as an example, for those who wish to utilize machine learning to analyze audio recordings of a focal species that has not often been recorded. Such applications could help to facilitate the effective conservation of avian populations."	USA	Technology
"Behavioral interference and interspecific competition shape the spatiotemporal behavior of carnivores, where intra-guild predation has been recorded as a strategy to limit competition. Very often, disentangling the effect of intra-guild effects from other ecological processes is challenging, if not impossible. This work aimed to assess the spatiotemporal behavior of the pine marten Martes martes in an island ecosystem without any intra-guild predation. Using an intensive camera-trap survey on Elba Island, Italy, we estimated occupancy, detection probability, and locomotor rhythms of the species. The pine marten occurred throughout the study area, showing a tendency to avoid urban areas during the high tourist season. Occupancy was higher in colder months and lowered in autumn, following opposite fluctuations of recorded human presence. Conversely, the detection probability remained low throughout the year, confirming the pine marten elusiveness. With other studies conducted in sympatry with other carnivores or predators, Elba Island martens showed locomotor ground activity mostly at dawn and dusk throughout the year, with an increasing diurnal locomotor activity in spring, when cubs are present. The spatiotemporal behavior of the pine marten in Elba island did show little variation across seasons. It was similar to those reported where potential predators were present, suggesting the intra-guild predation not playing a significant role in shaping the spatiotemporal activity of pine martens."	NonUS	Ecology
"Personality traits shape individual perceptions of risks and rewards, and so, should affect how animals value and use their environment. Evidence is emerging that personality affects foraging, space use, and exploitation of novel environments such as urban habitat. But the influence of personality is also hypothesized to be sex-dependent when primary motivation for space use differs between sexes, as often occurs in polygynous species. We tested the influence of personality traits, interacting with sex, on space use by the polygynous common brushtail possum, Trichosurus vulpecula, in an urban-woodland boundary in Sydney, Australia. We quantified personality traits, including exploration, using behavioral assays in an artificial arena. We also GPS-tracked free-ranging individuals, and measured range size, core area: home range, and proportional urban range. We found that personality traits affected space use either as a main effect or, as predicted, an interaction with sex. More exploratory animals, regardless of sex, had higher core area: home range ratios and proportionally larger ranges within urban habitat. However, less exploratory females yet more exploratory males had larger ranges. Our findings provide new insight into movement ecology by demonstrating, for the first time, the sex-dependent influence of personality. The demonstrated influence of personality on urban use by possums also suggests a personality filter for wildlife, as populations transition into urban areas. Finally, as individuals at the interface between urban and natural habitat are also a conduit between the two, a corollary of our findings is that there may be personality-mediated spread of disease across this boundary. Lay Summary: Animal personality traits, such as exploration, quantify consistent behavioral differences among individuals. These traits can influence space use and urban exploitation by individuals, but effects may also differ between the sexes. We found that more exploratory possums on the urban fringe favored urban over woodland habitat. In addition, less exploratory females but more exploratory males had larger ranges; a pattern likely driven by different primary motivators such as food (females) or access to mates (males)."	NonUS	Ecology
"Aim Understanding the environmental drivers of movement and habitat use of highly migratory marine species is crucial to implement appropriate management and conservation measures. However, this requires quantitative information on their spatial and temporal presence, which is limited in the high seas. Here, we aimed to gain insights of the essential habitats of three baleen whale species around the mid-North Atlantic (NA) region, linking their large-scale movements with information on oceanographic and biological processes. Location Mid-NA Ocean. Methods We present the first study combining data from 31 satellite tracks of baleen whales (15, 10 and 6 from fin, blue and sei whales, respectively) from March to July (2008-2016) with data on remotely sensed oceanography and mid- and lower trophic level biomass derived from the spatial ecosystem and population dynamics model (SEAPODYM). A Bayesian switching state-space model was applied to obtain regular tracks and correct for location errors, and pseudo-absences were created through simulated positions using a correlated random walk model. Based on the tracks and pseudo-absences, we applied generalized additive mixed models (GAMMs) to determine the probability of occurrence and predict monthly distributions. Results This study provides the most detailed research on the spatio-temporal distribution of baleen whales in the mid-NA, showing how dynamic biophysical processes determine their habitat preference. Movement patterns were mainly influenced by the interaction of temperature and the lower trophic level biomass; however, this relationship differed substantially among species. Best-fit models suggest that movements of whales migrating towards more productive areas in northern latitudes were constrained by depth and eddy kinetic energy. Main conclusions These novel insights highlight the importance of integrating telemetry data with spatially explicit prey models to understand which factors shape the movement patterns of highly migratory species across large geographical scales. In addition, our outcomes could contribute to inform management of anthropogenic threats to baleen whales in sparsely surveyed region."	NonUS	Ecology
"Lakes can be important to stream dwelling fishes, yet how individuals exploit habitat heterogeneity across complex stream-lake networks is poorly understood. Furthermore, despite growing awareness that intermittent streams are widely used by fish, studies documenting the use of seasonally accessible lakes remain scarce. We studied Arctic grayling (Thymallus arcticus) in a small seasonally flowing (June-October) stream-lake network in Alaska using PIT telemetry. Overall, 70% of fish visited two lakes, 8% used a single lake, and 22% used only stream reaches. We identified five distinct behavioural patterns that differed in dominant macrohabitat used (deep lake, shallow lake or stream reaches), entry day into the network and mobility. Some juvenile fish spent the entire summer in a shallow seasonally frozen lake (average 71 days), whereas others demonstrated prospecting behaviour and only entered the stream channel briefly in September. Another group included adult and juvenile fish that were highly mobile, moving up to 27 km while in the 3-km stream-lake network, and used stream reaches extensively (average 59 days). Lentic and lotic habitats served differing roles for individuals, some fish occupied stream reaches as summer foraging habitat, and other individuals used them as migration corridors to access lakes. Our study emphasises the importance of considering stream-lake connectivity in stream fish assessments, even to shallow seasonally frozen habitats not widely recognised as important. Furthermore, we demonstrate that individuals may use temporary aquatic habitats in complex and changing ways across ontogeny that are not captured by typical classifications of fish movement behaviour."	USA	Fisheries
"Context Maintaining landscape connectivity for large felids by preserving and restoring corridors between core habitats is crucial to their long-term conservation. Tiger, leopard, and clouded leopard populations occur in isolated habitat patches across the Dawna-Tanintharyi Landscape (DTL) of Kawthoolei (all Karen National Union administrative areas in Myanmar) and Thailand. Objectives We analyzed connectivity among 18 habitat patches in this transboundary region based on large felid presence and expert opinion of large felid dispersal requirements. Methods Least-cost corridor and circuit theory analyses were used to identify corridors, determine corridor quality and their relative importance to connectivity in the landscape, and pinpoint bottlenecks to movement. Results Forty-eight corridors were identified. Lower resistances to dispersal were in forested montane areas. High-quality corridors remained in the northern DTL and south of Tanintharyi Nature Reserve in Kawthoolei based on cost-weighted distance to least-cost path ratio. Pairwise current pinch point analyses revealed a possible landscape level bottleneck to movement north of Thailand's Western Forest Complex. Area corrected centrality scores indicated smaller habitat patches disproportionately contributed to landscape connectivity. Conclusions The DTL may retain connectivity across the landscape if conservation actions are taken to protect integral habitats and corridors. Conservation efforts that expand the protected area network in Kawthoolei, either by increasing the size of current protected area habitats or by demarcating new protected areas in regions with confirmed felid presence, will aid DTL connectivity. The DTL should be managed to preserve connectivity on both sides of the border, entailing international governmental, indigenous community, and non-governmental collaboration."	NonUS	Conservation
"For species at risk, it is important that demographic models be consistent with our most recent knowledge because alternate model versions can have differing predictions for wildlife and natural resource management. To establish and maintain this consistency, we can compare predicted model values to current or past observations and demographic knowledge. When novel predictor information becomes available, testing for consistency between modeled and observed values ensures the best models are used for robust, evidence-based, wildlife management. We combine novel information on the extent of historical disturbance regimes (industrial and fire) to an existing demographic model and predict historical and projected demographics of woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou). Exploring 6 simulation experiments across 5 populations in Alberta, Canada, we identify the relative importance of industrial disturbance, fire, and population density to observed population size and growth rate. We confirm the onset of significant declines across all 5 populations began approximately 30 years ago, demonstrate these declines have been consistent, and conclude they are more likely due to industrial disturbance from the oil and gas sector within contemporary population ranges than historical fire regimes. These findings reinforce recent research on the cause of woodland caribou declines. Testing for consistency between observations and models prescribed for species recovery is paramount for assessing the cause of declines, projecting population trends, and refining recovery strategies for effective wildlife management. We provide a novel simulation method for conducting these tests. (c) 2020 The Authors. TheJournal of Wildlife Managementpublished by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Wildlife Society."	NonUS	Ecology
"Human-driven habitat loss and fragmentation is one of the largest threats to modern biodiversity. The relationship between species and area is one of the oldest patterns observed in ecology; models based on the species-area relationship (SAR) have been used to estimate both local and global extinction rates. A critical difficulty for modern conservation studies is that they are forced to predict the future; empirical testing of these predictions puts at risk the very species the predictions are designed to protect. To help mitigate this problem, we explore the use of the species-area relationship using the paleontological record, which provides empirical data from both before and after species loss. Using species presence/ absence data, and a contiguous minimal area grid system, species-area curves (SACs) were constructed for one biofacies in each phase of a transgressive-regressive package. A regression observed for the Pliocene Etchegoin Formation of the San Joaquin Basin (California) inland sea, and the effect of sea-level fall on the perched molluscan fauna, was used as an analogy for modern habitat loss. Using the equation of the species-area curve of the transgressive interval, we predicted the number of species to go extinct in the subsequent regression. To examine extinction severity, we compared these predictions to the data observed for the regressive curve. The results showed that the regressive curve had fewer species than the prediction based on the transgressive curve, suggesting that species loss was more severe than predicted. The results demonstrate an example of how the species-area relationship can be used in the fossil record, and that the paleontological record could be used to provide relevant information for modern conservation problems."	NonUS	Conservation
"We studied the population status of Marsh Crocodiles (Crocodylus palustris) in Manjeera Wildlife Sanctuary (MWS), Telangana State, India, and analyzed their size classes, distribution, and conservation status. We conducted 64 night-time spotlight surveys between 2011 and 2017 to estimate the C. palustris population in the sanctuary. The density of sighted crocodiles, excluding juveniles in the night-time spotlight survey, varied from 5.50/km(2) to 5.91/km(2). The population of C. palustris has grown from 0.41 to 5.4 individuals/km(2) in the sanctuary. Spatial analysis showed the statistically significant locations of high and low values and we discuss threats to the conservation of C. palustris to improve management practices in Manjeera Wildlife Sanctuary."	NonUS	Conservation
"Tubastraea coccinea and T. tagusensis are invasive corals that have well-established populations along the broad Brazilian coasta. Over a decade of field surveys (2010-2021) in the Cagarras Islands Natural Monument, a no-take Marine Protected Area (MPA), and surroundings in Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region, the colonization processes of Tubastraea spp. has been followed up. In 2019, Tubastraea spp. population structures were determined by photoquadrats on Comprida (CO) and Cagarra (CA) islands, where patches with the highest coral densities had been detected. In laboratory, Tubastraea spp. planulation was recorded and settlement bioassays were conducted on live crustose coralline algae Lithophyllum spp. (Rhodophyta) compared to respective controls (i.e. dead Lithophyllum spp. fragments). A total of 1908 colonies of Tubastraea spp. were recorded in the photoquadrats, of which T. tagusensis represented practically all colonies (T. coccinea had a single record); thus, the analyses considered the data set for the former. The mean colonies density was 636.0 & PLUSMN; ind.m(-2), composed mainly by founder polyps, and the mean cover was similar for CO (9.3%) and CA (13.9%) islands. Most of the founder polyps settled on crustose coralline algae - CCA (63.0%), followed by CCA/Turf (24.4%). Higher incidence of founder polyps on CCA (Lithophyllum spp.) indicates the importance of this algal functional group for the recruitment and colonization of T. tagusensis. Planulation was similar for both species and planulae preferred to settle and metamorphose on live Lithophyllum spp. These results on coral-algae interactions will contribute to enhance control/ management actions of Tubastraea spp. on Brazilian rocky shores.& nbsp;(c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Coastal waters provide a wide range of ecosystem services (ES), but are under intensive human use, face fast degradation and are subject to increasing pressures and changes in near future. As consequence, European Union (EU) water policies try to protect, restore and manage coastal and marine systems in a sustainable way. The most important EU directive in this respect is the Water Framework Directive (WFD) (2000/60/EC). Objective is to reach a good status in EU waters, following a stepwise and guided process. Our major objective is to test how an ecosystem service assessment can support WFD implementation in practice. We use the Marine Ecosystem Service Assessment Tool (MESAT) that utilizes spatial definitions, reference conditions and the good status according to the WFD as well as data and information gained during the implementation process. The data-based tool allows comparative analyses between different ecological states and an evaluation of relative changes in ES provision. We apply MESAT to two contrasting systems in the German Baltic Sea region, the rural Schlei and the urban/industrialized Warnow Estuary. These databased assessments show how the ES provision has changed between the historic, pre-industrial state around 1880 (reference conditions with high ecological status), the situation around 1960 (good ecological status), and today. The analysis separates the estuaries into water bodies. A complementary expert-based ES assessment compares the situation today with a future scenario Warnow 2040 assuming a good ecological status as consequence of a successful WFD implementation. Strengths and weaknesses of the approaches and their utilization in the WFD are discussed. ES assessments can be regarded as suitable to support public relation activities and to increase the acceptance of measures. Further, they are promising tools in participation and stakeholder processes within the planning of measures. However an ES assessment not only supports the WFD implementation, but the WFD provides a frame for ES assessments larger scale assessments in seascapes, increases the acceptance of the ES approach and the readiness of stakeholders to get involved."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"The constantly growing number of motor vehicles increases the biodiversity conservation awareness of the public. To this end, numerous compensation measures are implemented, primarily provision of wildlife crossing infrastructure to guide animals over and under transport routes. There are different design aspects that must be considered in the case of wildlife crossings located in rural areas and in forests. An interdisciplinary approach should be employed for the wildlife crossing design, involving specialists from different fields of science. This article deals with the effect of local landscape elements and structures on the acoustic environment on the wildlife overpasses located in rural areas. Several tests were carried out, covering the levels of traffic, improvements around the existing overpasses and the noise distribution on them. For the final analysis, seven overpasses were chosen, differing in terms of the landscape elements and structures present. Five of them included noise barriers of different shapes and lengths and had a flat approach area. Two crossings did not have noise barriers and the approach areas were located in varied terrain. The analysis of the derived sound maps allowed for the determination of the effect of the different landscape elements and structures on the noise distribution on the overpasses under analysis. Earthen berms aligned with the noise barriers and extending to the length defined by the approach area topography were found to be the most effective noise-reducing measure."	NonUS	Ecology
"Marine policy and management has to cope with a plethora of human activities that cause pressures leading to changes to the natural and human systems. Accordingly, it requires many policy and management responses to address traditional, cultural, social, ecological, technical, and economic policy objectives. Because of this, we advocate that a fully-structured approach using the IEC/ISO 31010 Bow-tie analysis will allow all elements to be integrated for a cost-effective system. This industry-standard system, described here with examples for the marine environment, will fulfil many of the demands by the users and uses of the marine system and the regulators of those users and uses. It allows for bridging several aspects: the management and environmental sciences, the management complexity and governance demands, the natural and social sciences and socio-economics and outcomes. Most importantly, the use of the Bow-tie approach bridges systems analysis and ecosystem complexity. At a time when scientific decisions in policy making and implementation are under question, we conclude that it provides a rigorous, transparent and defendable system of decision-making. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Clearing invasive alien plants often facilitates secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance instead of native biodiversity recovery. Secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance in turn can present significant barriers to restoration by hindering the recovery of key native species. The problem of secondary invasion and weedy native species dominance is ubiquitous and well appreciated globally, but poorly understood in the context of restoration ecology in South Africa. This study uses a two-pronged approach - a literature review plus an expert workshop - to evaluate the knowledge on secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance after clearing invasive alien plants in South Africa. Focus is placed on the definition, habits, biomes, target invaders, factors leading to, effects and management of secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance. Results suggest that secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance are often observed after clearing target invaders but is seldom reported, focused on, identified by name and/or correctly defined. The occurrence of secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance is not biome specific and is mediated by factors such as soil physico-chemical legacies of target invaders, availability of propagules in the soil seed bank and surrounding areas, and side effects of the technique used to clear target invaders. Ferns, grasses, herbs, sedges, shrubs, and trees can be secondary invaders and/or weedy native species. Few or no management interventions currently target secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance in South Africa. Given the paucity of knowledge on secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance in South Africa, there is clearly a need for more research. Practitioners should integrate the management of secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance with their overall invasive alien plant clearing efforts. Relevant steps should be taken to include mechanisms and incentives of dealing with secondary invasion and/or weedy native species dominance in the policy on invasive alien plants in South Africa. (c) 2020 SAAB. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Phycotoxins synthesized by benthic dinoflagellates are known to bioaccumulate in macrofauna and hence represent a risk for human health. However, the presence of toxins synthesized by benthic dinoflagellates in smaller marine organisms than macrofauna has not been considered despite the fact that such small organisms have an important ecological role in the benthic food web. This present study quantified, for the first time, the trophic relationship between benthic dinoflagellates and meiofauna by using stable isotope enriched dinoflagellates during ingestion experiments. Results showed that harpacticoid copepods were not able to discriminate, during ingestion, between the potentially toxic cells of Ostreopsis cf. ovata and the non-toxic cells of Amphidinium cf. carterae, even when another food resource, such as diatoms (e.g. Odontella sp.), was provided (Kruskal Wallis test, p > .05)."	NonUS	Ecology
"Management of mixed-stock Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) fisheries requires balancing fishery access and conservation of vulnerable stocks. Although accurate, timely estimates of stock-specific harvest are crucial in achieving competing objectives, limited numbers of stock assignments (e.g., tag recoveries) can diminish the utility of estimates. We used a flexible simulation approach, applied to both a theoretical and real-world fishery case study, to compare the performance of competing monitoring alternatives and estimators for harvest. We sought to improve accuracy for point estimates of harvest and harvest trajectories over time. Bayesian models provided similarly accurate point estimates to existing models at high levels of data aggregation, generally improved estimates of harvest trajectories at intermediate aggregation, and reliable estimates of uncertainty. Incorporation of time-lagged prior information inconsistently improved estimates of harvest trajectories. Among monitoring alternatives yielding equal increases (33%) in coded wire tag recoveries, increasing tagging rates resulted in the greatest decrease in estimate uncertainty for target stocks (375% to 45.3%). Variable performances of mixed-stock harvest estimators suggest their use should considered on a stock- and fishery-specific basis, potentially using a simulation-based approach."	USA	Fisheries
"Urban sprawl and atmospheric pollution have a tremendous impact on the environment and threatenthe survival of wildlife. Understanding the response of birds to these pressing threats is imperative to plan relevant management policies. Here, we investigated the responses of 17 breeding bird species to urbanization and industrialization on 11 South-Eastern Tunisian coastal oases. The generalized linear mixed model analysis revealed that six species, namely Rufous-tailed Scrub-Robin, Woodchat Shrike, European turtle-dove, European Serin, Common Chaffinch and Orphean Warbler, were urban avoiders. Among these species, the Rufous-tailed Scrub-Robin has the lowest affinity for oases close to urban areas. However, the Eurasian Collared-Dove was the largest user of oases localized near urban areas. Our results showed that eight species, namely Great grey shrike, European Turtle-dove, Eurasian Collared-Dove, Common Chaffinch, Common Blackbird, European Serin, Laughing Dove and Orphean Warbler, had more occurrences far away from highly industrialized areas. For the remaining species (n = 9), the effect of proximity to the industrial complex was not significant. Furthermore, our results highlighted the robustness of the distance to the industrial complex in shaping the occurrences of the breeding birds compared to urban areas. To maintain bird diversity in this original ecosystem, management measures should focus on (i) maintaining the current level of urbanization, (ii) implementing comprehensive, clear, and enforceable air quality standards to protect the environment and biodiversity from air pollutants, and (iii) phasing out industrial facilities."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Colony fidelity and dispersal can have important consequences on the population dynamics of colonial-nesting birds. We studied survival and inter-colony movements of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus; cormorants) nesting at Spider and Pilot islands, located 9 km apart in western Lake Michigan, during 2008-2014. We used live resighting and dead recovery data from both colonies, plus dead recoveries from throughout North America, in a multistate live and dead encounter model to estimate annual survival, inter-colony movements, plus temporary and permanent emigration to unmonitored sites. Annual survival averaged 0.37 (annual process variation, (sigma) over cap = 0.07) for hatch-year, 0.78 ((sigma) over cap = 0.08) for second-year, and 0.89 ((sigma) over cap = 0.04) for after-second year birds.The best approximating model recognized only 2 age classes for transition probabilities, indicating little difference in fidelity and movement probabilities after the natal year. Annual fidelity to Spider and Pilot islands averaged 0.53 ((sigma) over cap = 0.17) and 0.48 ((sigma) over cap = 0.24) for second-year and 0.55 ((sigma) over cap = 0.23) and 0.62 ((sigma) over cap = 0.16) for after-second year cormorants, respectively, indicating substantial emigration for both age classes. For birds that dispersed, emigration was approximately equally divided among neighboring colonies, temporary emigration sites from which surviving birds subsequently returned, or permanent emigration sites from which birds never returned (but were still encountered through dead recoveries). Our results indicate that Double-crested Cormorants in the Great Lakes have tremendous potential to disperse, which may help to explain their rapid recolonization following historically low populations in the early 1970s."	USA	Ecology
"Many disease ecologists and conservation biologists believe that the world is wormier than it used to be-that is, that parasites are increasing in abundance through time. This argument is intuitively appealing. Ecologists typically see parasitic infections, through their association with disease, as a negative endpoint, and are accustomed to attributing negative outcomes to human interference in the environment, so it slots neatly into our worldview that habitat destruction, biodiversity loss and climate change should have the collateral consequence of causing outbreaks of parasites. But surprisingly, the hypothesis that parasites are increasing in abundance through time remains entirely untested for the vast majority of wildlife parasite species. Historical data on parasites are nearly impossible to find, which leaves no baseline against which to compare contemporary parasite burdens. If we want to know whether the world is wormier than it used to be, there is only one major research avenue that will lead to an answer: parasitological examination of specimens preserved in natural history collections. Recent advances demonstrate that, for many specimen types, it is possible to extract reliable data on parasite presence and abundance. There are millions of suitable specimens that exist in collections around the world. When paired with contemporaneous environmental data, these parasitological data could even point to potential drivers of change in parasite abundance, including climate, pollution or host density change. We explain how to use preserved specimens to address pressing questions in parasite ecology, give a few key examples of how collections-based parasite ecology can resolve these questions, identify some pitfalls and workarounds, and suggest promising areas for research. Natural history specimens are 'parasite time capsules' that give ecologists the opportunity to test whether infectious disease is on the rise and to identify what forces might be driving these changes over time. This approach will facilitate major advances in a new sub-discipline: the historical ecology of parasitism."	USA	Ecology
"Seagrasses are gaining attention thanks to their metabolism and potential major role as carbon sinks, with further implications as nature-based solutions against climate change. Despite their recognized importance and the growing number of studies published, there is still a striking paucity of information on seagrass metabolism and contribution to biogeochemical cycles for some seagrass species and ocean areas. In this study we assessed the metabolic balance and nutrient cycling contribution of seagrasses to the benthic compartment of a tropical reef lagoon in Reunion Island, providing original information on a barely studied seagrass species (Syringodium isoetifolium) and a poorly studied ocean region (West Indian Ocean). We measured the net productivity, respiration and the metabolic balance in different components of the lagoon benthic compartment (i.e. seagrass, sediment, and benthic community) and the water-sediment nutrient benthic fluxes at differently impacted sites within the lagoon. The biogeochemical environmental variability, including inorganic and organic indicators of anthropogenic contamination, was also assessed at each site.Large spatial variability was detected in the metabolic balance of each benthic component assessed, also associated with the natural and/or anthropic-driven environmental variability found in the lagoon. The seagrass S. isoetifolium was net autotrophic across the lagoon and contributed to the lagoon benthic metabolism with net plant productivity exceeding by one order of magnitude the plant respiration. The lowest seagrass metabolism was detected at the impacted site. The metabolic balance of the sediment was heterotrophic but the high productivity of S. isoetifolium contributed to reducing the heterotrophy of the whole benthic community. The lagoon-wide benthic metabolic balance was slightly heterotrophic, but the associated uncertainty ranged from autotrophy to heterotrophy. Nutrient concentrations in the lagoon were low and the benthic community capacity for nutrient retention (uptake) and removal (denitrification and anammox) indicated potential for buffering moderate nutrient inputs into the lagoon. Organic contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) were low but detectable in the lagoon, especially in highly frequented beach areas, arising as an environmental quality indicator of interest."	NonUS	Ecology
"Spatial distributions of marine fauna are determined by complex interactions between environmental conditions and animal behaviors. As climate change leads to warmer, more acidic, and less oxygenated oceans, species are shifting away from their historical distribution ranges, and these trends are expected to continue into the future. Correlative Species Distribution Models (SDMs) can be used to project future habitat extent for marine species, with many different statistical methods available. However, it is vital to assess how different statistical methods behave under novel environmental conditions before using these models for management advice, and to consider whether future projections based on these techniques are biologically reasonable. In this study, we built SDMs for adults and larvae of two ecologically important pelagic fishes in the California Current System (CCS): Pacific sardine (Sardinops sagax) and northern anchovy (Engraulis mordax). We used five different SDM methods, ranging from simple [thermal niche model (TNM)] to complex (artificial neural networks). Our results show that some SDMs trained on data collected between 2003 and 2013 lost substantial predictive skill when applied to observations from more recent years, when ocean temperatures associated with a marine heatwave were outside the range of historical measurements. This decrease in skill was particularly apparent for adult sardine, which showed non-stationary relationships between catch locations and sea surface temperature (SST) through time. While sardine adults and larvae shifted their distributions markedly during the marine heatwave, anchovy largely maintained their historical spatiotemporal distributions. Our results suggest that correlative relationships between species and their environment can become unreliable during anomalous conditions. Understanding the underlying physiology of marine species is therefore essential for the construction of SDMs that are robust to rapidly changing environments. Developing distribution models that offer skillful predictions into the future for species such as sardine and anchovy, which are migratory and include separate sub-stocks, may be particularly challenging."	USA	Fisheries
"Energy transfer through the food-chain is one of the principal processes determining the ecosystem functioning. However, food habits of important consumers are still poorly investigated in many ecosystems. The Argentinean menhaden Brevoortia pectinata is an important fishery resource of small-scale fishery industry and a conspicuous species in southwestern Atlantic estuaries. The feeding habits of this species is unknown, despite its commercial and ecological relevance. We analyzed 227 gut contents of juvenile menhadens sampled in Patos Lagoon estuary in south Brazil (32 degrees S) to describe spatial patterns in its diet composition and trophic plasticity associated with salinity conditions. Overall, B. pectinata consumed mainly calanoid copepods and diatoms showing diet shifts along the salinity gradient. The diet was dominated by calanoids (40%) and diatoms (25%) in the sampling station nearer the lagoon's connection with the sea, but shifted to cladocerans (63%) and calanoids (90%) in the intermediate estuary and nearer freshwater, respectively. The diet was also more diverse towards the sea connection, with higher contribution of marine taxa like barnacle larvae and amphipods. Hence, this planktivore species presented an omnivore diet and trophic plasticity along the salinity gradient, being apparently adapted to the different availability of food resources in each portion of the estuary."	NonUS	Ecology
"The planktonic dinoflagellate Akashiwo sanguinea is a commonly observed bloom-forming species in estuarine and coastal waters worldwide. Large scales of A. sanguinea bloom cause the mass mortality of fish, shellfish, and sea birds. The formation of resting cysts plays as a potential vector for its wide distribution and frequent recurrence of blooms; however, the biochemical characteristics of algal cells during their life cycle remain unclear. For the first time, the variations in cellular chlorophyll a (Chl a), protein, carbohydrate, and total lipid contents during encystment of A. sanguinea cultured in different nitrate concentrations, namely 0-, 25-, 50-, 100-, 200-, and 833-mu M N-added treatment, were studied in the present study. The results indicated that resting cysts were formed in all the N treatments, with the highest encystment ratio of 3.34 +/- 0.57% observed in the 100-mu M N-added treatment, and the lowest rate of 0.80 +/- 0.03% observed in the 883-mu M N-added treatment. The levels of the four biochemical components varied significantly during the encystment process. The Chl a and protein levels were significantly lower in newly formed cysts than in vegetative cells; however, continuous accumulation of carbohydrates and total lipids occurred with the algal growth, particularly of carbohydrates in the resting cysts, which was more than tenfold greater than those in the vegetative cells. Low initial N concentrations were more favorable for carbohydrate accumulation in cysts than high N concentrations. The accumulated components may play vital roles for the substance of A. sanguinea during resting stage. The results provided fundamental information for an improved understanding of the physiological response of A. sanguinea during encystment."	NonUS	Ecology
"Indonesia, the world's largest archipelagic nation and second-largest fish producer in the world, has fisheries distinguished by a high diversity of species and with a large variety of gear and methods used to fish over expansive geographic areas. Fisheries management in Indonesia is equally complex with multiple levels of governance, decentralization, and traditional fishing tenure rights. The Government of Indonesia is taking strides to improve fisheries management in a changing and complex environment to support sustainable economic development, livelihoods, and food security of its people. This paper takes stock of recent developments in fisheries science and management in the country and identifies additional opportunities for improvement. An analytic framework for evaluating progress and opportunities for fisheries management has been adapted from a set of eight working principles for effective fisheries management. Analysis of each principle revealed that although current Indonesian fishery management includes landing data collections, onboard observer programs, logbooks, e-logbooks, catch per unit effort (CPUE) standardization, regional fisheries management units, genetic assessments, vessel tracking, and similar tools to improve fisheries management, significant work remains. Although the use of data is pivotal in the development of fisheries solutions, data inputs are still not adequate to perform fully reliable assessments. Indonesia's pool of experts remains insufficient to meet the extensive stock assessment needs across the country and thus continuous training and mentoring of assessors in techniques relevant for different stock types and data levels is crucial to ensure skills enhancement. Indonesia's interdisciplinary stock assessment review body, Komnas KAJISKAN, plays a critical role by providing scientific guidance that balances short-term economic needs from the perspectives of fishers and policymakers with the ecological constraints required for long-term fishery sustainability. Although small-scale fisheries dominate Indonesia's fisheries management system, the process of decentralizing data collection and management functions to province, district, and village levels is alone not sufficient to encourage more local ownership and compliance. Tools such as customary rules of conduct, marine protected areas, and other local area management regimes can also help to successfully manage small-scale fisheries and marine resources. Provincial licensing and boat classifications remain issues that require continued attention, simplification, and clarification. Finally, an enhanced national policy framework that empowers and engages local governments, universities, NGOs, fishers and community groups who are adequately trained, staffed, and funded would significantly strengthen fisheries science through improved data collection, processing, and interpretation to benefit management. In conclusion, the threat of overfishing in Indonesia's fisheries is visible in the data, and trends suggest a similar pathway involving unsustainable production goals and escalating overfishing as followed by neighboring countries that experienced fisheries collapse. Time is of the essence in recognizing this trajectory and adjusting policies to maintain and sustain the country's natural fisheries wealth for the present and future generations."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Phosphatases play a crucial role in recycling organic phosphorus and determining primary production and phytoplankton communities in seawater, especially in phosphate-depleted coastal waters. The present study analyzed spatiotemporal variation in phosphomonoesterase (PMEase) activity (PMEA) and phosphodiesterase (PDEase) activity (PDEA) during 2 dinoflagellate blooms occurring in 2 coastal areas of Fujian Province, East China Sea, which differed in external phosphate conditions. Together with environmental variables and with a specific focus on the availability of different phosphorus forms in the seawater, the regulation of both phosphatases was studied. The results showed that dissolved organic phosphorus (DOP) was the major phosphorus source during blooms, especially in phosphate-depleted environments. Labile DOP accounted for more than 50% of DOP, of which phosphomonoester (PME) and phosphodiester (PDE) accounted for 75-94% and 6-25%, respectively. PMEA and PDEA were highly correlated, both increasing during blooms with a fixed PMEA:PDEA ratio of 2.5 under external phosphate conditions at both sites. Both PMEA and PDEA were negatively correlated with dissolved inorganic phosphorus (DIP) when phosphate was depleted, but positively correlated with DOP regardless of external phosphate conditions. During dinoflagellate blooms, temperature and phytoplankton biomass were the dominant variables determining both phosphatase activities under phosphate-depleted conditions, whereas the availability of DOP was the dominant variable determining both phosphatase activities under phosphate-replete conditions. This study suggests the importance of phosphatases in recycling DOP, and indicates similar regulation of PMEA and PDEA during dinoflagellate blooms."	NonUS	Ecology
"Strategies that integrate conservation and development objectives are increasingly common, albeit still controversial, at the global scale. There are information gaps regarding their overall reach and sustainability through an integral assessment approach. Therefore, the objectives of this study were: 1) to design a Methodological Framework of Sustainability Evaluation (MFSE) that could be applied to the assessment of conservation and development strategies; and 2) to apply this MFSE in an empirical exercise with management units for wildlife conservation (UMAs, by its Spanish acronym), a major environmental policy in Mexico. The UMAs confer legal rights to landowners for the exploitation of wildlife and protection of ecosystems. The MFSE had five hierarchical levels (three sustainability dimensions, general and specific criteria, indicators and metrics), which are grouped into a Sustainability Index (SI). Data was collected from official databases, structured interviews with official managers and landowners, and field observations in six UMAs in Tabasco, Mexico. According to the findings, the SI in the social dimension showed the highest values, followed by the environmental and economic dimensions. The key aspects for sustainability in the six UMAs are: 1) local governance norms, 2) active participation and interinstitutional linkage, 3) capacity for initial economic investment and long-term vision and 4) project liability and appropriation from their design. Free-ranging and intensive UMAs pose different objectives, since the former are focused on the management and conservation of ecosystems where the species of interest are found, while the latter are focused on species-based management, mostly those of economic interest. For this reason, they may require separate governmental appraisal as different management systems."	NonUS	Conservation
"Despite some past remarkable marine expeditions in the seas surrounding the ludo-Malay Archipelago, a checklist of Indonesian polychaete species has never been published to date. In this paper, an inventory of species was created based mainly on existing published literature. All records of Indonesian polychaetes were mapped, and this indicated a preponderance of deep-sea records in the Wallacea region, which were primarily collected by the Dutch Siboga Expedition at the turn of the 19th century. Most biodiversity studies on the fauna by local scientists have been ecological in nature and conducted in shallow water. Many specimens were not identified to species level and not vouchered in a recognised institution. Since the mid 1700s, 580 valid polychaete species (51 families) have been identified by 37 first authors in 90 taxonomic publications. Of these species, 301 species (40 families) were new to science and mostly described by R. Horst and M. Cannery. An additional 133 polychaete species and four polychaete families are also known from the species records of the Global Biodiversity Information Facility and the Ocean Biogeographic Information System. Altogether, there have been 713 polychaete species (55 families) identified from Indonesian waters. We examined the three largest polychaete repositories in Indonesia - the Museum Zoologicum Bogoriense in Bogor, Research Center for Deep Sea in Ambon, and Research Center for Oceanography in Jakarta - and found that the collections at each institution were mostly unidentified, unpublished, and not databased, suggesting that the taxonomic study of the polychaete fauna, at least locally, has been largely overlooked. Despite some challenges, international collaborative research may be the solution to improve the knowledge of the polychaete fauna of this species-rich, yet poorly known geographic region."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Seasonal changes in taxonomic and functional diversity of microbial communities in polar regions are commonly observed, requiring strategies of microbes to adapt to the corresponding changes in environmental conditions. These natural fluctuations form the backdrop for changes induced by anthropogenic impacts. The main goal of this study was to assess the seasonal and temporal changes in bacterial and archaeal diversity and community structure off the northern Antarctic Peninsula over several seasons (spring, summer, autumn) from 2013 to 2015. Ten monitoring stations were selected across the Gerlache and Bransfield Straits and nearby Elephant Island, and archaeal and bacterial communities examined by amplicon sequencing of 16S rRNA genes. Alpha-diversity indices were higher in spring and correlated significantly with temperature. Spring was characterized by the presence of SAR11, and microbial communities remaining from winter, including representatives of Thaumarchaeota (Nimosopurnilus), Euryarchaeota, members of Oceanospirillales, SAR324. Summer and autumn were characterized by a high prevalence of Flavobacteria (NS5 marine group and Polaribacter), Alphaproizobacteria (Rhodobacterales and SAR11 Glade) and Gammaproteobacteria (Oceanospirillales/Balneatrix and Celivibrionales), generally known to be associated with organic matter degradation. Relatively higher abundance of phytoplankton groups occurred in spring, mainly characterized by the presence of the haptophyte Phaeocystis and the diatom Corethron, influencing the succession of heterotrophic bacterial communities. Microbial diversity and community structure varied significantly over time, but not over space, i.e., were similar between monitoring stations for the same time. In addition, the observed interannual variability in microbial community structure might be related to an increase in sea surface temperature. Environmental conditions related to seasonal variation, including temperature and most likely phytoplankton derived organic matter, appear to have triggered the observed shifts in microbial communities in the waters off the northern Antarctic Peninsula."	NonUS	Ecology
"An endangered subspecies of the African houbara bustard, the Canarian houbara (Chlamydotis undulata fuertaventurae), is endemic to the Canary Islands off southern Morocco (Lanzarote, Fuerteventura, and La Graciosa islands). This population decreased over the last centuries because of hunting and egg collection, and was close to extinction in Lanzarote around the middle of last century. Later, the species recovered because of hunting bans, but in Fuerteventura a significant decline has again occurred in the last decades and houbaras are on the brink of extirpation on that island. We describe the genetic characteristics and recent evolutionary history of this subspecies to provide essential information for the evaluation of the conservation actions implemented and for the development of new measures to prevent further declines and local extirpations. We amplified microsatellite loci to infer genetic variability, population structure, and gene flow. The subspecies exhibited relatively high genetic variability but reduced heterozygosity. In spite of high gene flow among locations and islands, we identified 2 genetic units: 1 comprising La Graciosa and Fuerteventura islands, and the other restricted to Lanzarote. We detected genetic bottlenecks and subsequent inbreeding in both units, with a reduced effective number of alleles in Lanzarote compared to Fuerteventura-La Graciosa. This genetic structure may be explained by human-induced historical population declines and an associated bottleneck effect, particularly in Lanzarote. Conservation measures should aim to recover the houbara population of Fuerteventura, improving survival of adults and juvenile productivity, and to ensure that genetic flow continues among breeding locations and islands to recover the original population structure (an unique genetic unit over the range of the species) and prevent further genetic deterioration, which could lead to extirpation of this endemic subspecies."	NonUS	Genetics
"The use of remote cameras is widespread in wildlife ecology, yet few examples exist of their utility for collecting environmental data. We used a novel camera trap method to evaluate the accuracy of gridded snow data in a mountainous region of the northeastern US. We were specifically interested in assessing (1) how snow depth observations from remote cameras compare with gridded climate data, (2) the sources of error associated with the gridded data and (3) the influence of spatial sampling on bias. We compared daily observations recorded by remote cameras with Snow Data Assimilation System (SNODAS) gridded predictions using data from three winters (2014-2016). Snow depth observations were correlated with SNODAS predictions for sites (R-2 = 0.20) and regions (R-2 = 0.16), yet we detected factors associated with SNODAS bias at both scales. Specifically, SNODAS underpredicted depths at high elevations, at sites with higher solar radiation, and within conifer-dominated forest. Depths were most underpredicted at highest elevations, up to 44 and 26 cm on average at the site and region scales, respectively. Bias was greatest when predictions were lowest, occasionally predicting snow absence when depths were >100 cm at camera sites. We also detected breakdowns in accuracy when certain environmental conditions varied within the 1 km(2) SNODAS grid cells. For example, underprediction was greatest when the solar radiation values of camera stations increased relative to the mean of the SNODAS grid cells. This relationship was most prominent in mountainous regions, suggesting that factors which influence solar radiation (e.g. topographic complexity) contribute to SNODAS inaccuracy. We caution using gridded snow data for ecological studies when bias is unknown. We suggest increased sampling to adjust for errors associated with gridded data products that arise from factors, such as forest cover and topographic variability. Increasing resolution and accuracy of climate data will improve predictions of species' responses to climate change."	USA	Technology
"Baited remote underwater video systems (BRUVS) are increasingly used to study fish communities, biomass, and animal behaviour. Due to the abundance of BRUVS data, there are many analysis methods. The most commonly used method for analysis of BRUV data is MaxN which refers to the maximum number of individuals observed of a species in a single frame of a video. Here, we present a novel method for BRUVS analysis that involves identifying and counting distinct individuals (MaxIND) to quantify the accuracy of MaxN. Individual oriental bluespotted maskray (Neotrygon orientalis) and the bluespotted fantail ray (Taeniura lymma) were identified on BRUVS by spot patterns, tail characteristics, and sex at three sites in Malaysian Borneo. We demonstrated that MaxIND gave abundances that were 2.4 and 1.1 times higher than MaxN for N. orientalis and T. lymma, respectively. These differences between methods were consistent for each species between sites regardless of the presence of marine reserves. However, differences in abundance estimates from MaxN to MaxIND were apparent between species, indicating that correction factors need to be developed on a species basis to better estimate true abundance. While identifying individuals is time consuming, it provides improved accuracy and information about populations. We therefore recommend the use of MaxIND when rare and endangered species are present, in high density populations, and for behavioural analyses."	NonUS	Technology
"Waterbodies such as lakes and ponds are fragile environments affected by human influences. Suitable conditions can result in massive growth of phototrophs, commonly referred to as phytoplankton blooms. Such events benefit heterotrophic bacteria able to use compounds secreted by phototrophs or their biomass as major nutrient source. One example of such bacteria are Planctomycetes, which are abundant on the surfaces of marine macroscopic phototrophs; however, less data are available on their ecological roles in limnic environments. In this study, we followed a cultivation-independent deep sequencing approach to study the bacterial community composition during a cyanobacterial bloom event in a municipal duck pond. In addition to cyanobacteria, which caused the bloom event, members of the phylum Planctomycetes were significantly enriched in the cyanobacteria-attached fraction compared to the free-living fraction. Separate datasets based on isolated DNA and RNA point towards considerable differences in the abundance and activity of planctomycetal families, indicating different activity peaks of these families during the cyanobacterial bloom. Motivated by the finding that the sampling location harbours untapped bacterial diversity, we included a complementary cultivation-dependent approach and isolated and characterized three novel limnic strains belonging to the phylum Planctomycetes."	NonUS	Ecology
"Upon tangential ultrafiltration and asymmetric flow field analyses, seawater nanoparticle size distribution and the associations with the total number of bacteria and plankton diversity were evaluated. Of the nanoparticles in the Jiulong River Estuary, 79% were from 1 to 6 nm (C-1). C-2 (6-20 nm) was correlated with dissolved organic carbon, while C-2 and C-3 (> 20 nm) were associated with dissolved inorganic nitrogen, suggesting that C-2 and C-3 were impacted by biogenic elements. The total number of bacteria was correlated with C-1 and C-3. The correlations of Shannon's diversity index (H') and C-3, richness (d), and C-1 suggested a link of particle size with phytoplankton biodiversity. Significant correlations of the H' of zooplankton and C-3, and of Pielou's evenness index (J) and C-3, suggested C-3 as a primary digestion product of zooplankton. The negative correlations of nano-organic carbon (NOC) with d and J suggested NOC as a carbon source for zooplankton. Biodiversity was associated with seawater nanoparticle size distribution. Biological activities regulated the nanoparticle size distribution, which impacted the estuarine nutrient cycling, in turn affecting the stability and balance of biodiversity. Correlation analysis of the size distribution of seawater nanoparticles and the plankton diversity index provided a potential tool for evaluating ecological effects."	NonUS	Ecology
"Mountain ecosystems contain strong elevational gradients in climate and vegetation that shape species distributions and the structure of animal communities. Nevertheless, studies of habitat selection for individual species rarely account for such gradients that often result in species being managed uniformly across their range, which may not improve conservation as intended. Therefore, we characterized variation in nocturnal habitat selection by 18 GPS-tagged California spotted owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) along a 1400-m elevational gradient in the Sierra Nevada, California. We characterized three-dimensional forest structure with light detection and ranging data that we used in mixed-effects resource- and step-selection analyses of owl habitat selection. At lower elevations, owls selected stands with shorter trees, sites closer to hard edges between tall forests and open areas, sites with less diversity in forest seral types and sites with more ridge and southwest aspects. In contrast, owls at higher elevations selected the opposite. Within public forests that had taller trees and within their home range core (45% kernel density estimate of GPS points) areas, owls selected forests with less and more canopy cover at low and high elevations, respectively. Outside of their core areas, owls selected areas with fewer and more tall trees at low and high elevations, respectively. These findings may be explained by elevational gradients in prey distribution and variation in owl diet because owls consume more woodrats (Neotoma spp; earlier seral species) at lower elevations and more flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus; older forest species) at higher elevations. Thus, at low elevations and in areas unlikely to support nesting, spotted owls could benefit from management that promotes woodrat habitat by encouraging oak regeneration and creating small brushy openings within forests with shorter (younger) trees. Conversely, at higher elevations, (1) enhancing flying squirrel habitat by promoting large trees and denser canopy on mesic sites and (2) managing for greater cover type diversity on southwest-facing slopes and ridgetops is more likely to improve foraging habitat quality for spotted owls. The patterns of owl selection over elevational gradients has not been explicitly considered in most habitat management plans but clearly would improve management throughout mountain ecosystems."	USA	Ecology
"We used conventional and finite mixture removal models with and without time-varying covariates to evaluate availability given presence for 152 bird species using data from point counts in boreal North America. We found that the choice of model had an impact on the estimability of unknown model parameters and affected the bias and variance of corrected counts. Finite mixture models provided better fit than conventional removal models and better adjusted for count duration. However, reliably estimating parameters and minimizing variance using mixture models required at least 200-1,000 detections. Mixture models with time-varying proportions of infrequent singers were best supported across species, indicating that accounting for date- and time-related heterogeneity is important when combining data across studies over large spatial scales, multiple sampling time frames, or variable survey protocols. Our flexible and continuous time-removal modeling framework can be used to account for such heterogeneity through the incorporation of easily obtainable covariates, such as methods, date, time, and location. Accounting for availability bias in bird surveys allows for better integration of disparate studies at large spatial scales and better adjustment of local, regional, and continental population size estimates."	NonUS	Ecology
"Marine conservation in Indonesia is complicated by the 1,000s of islands and nearly as many languages and cultures that stretch across this 3200 mile (5100 km) country. Secure marine tenure has improved the prospects for sustainable fishing and livelihoods in many places around the world, and there are some traditional, historical examples of tenure in Indonesia. Where tenure institutions exist, however, they have typically been undermined by colonial and post-colonial policies, and in the vast majority of places, marine tenure and other rights (hak) to marine resources have either been extinguished or never existed. The issue is fraught: tenure rights may provide communities with the security to invest in and manage their fishery resources for long-term sustainability, but there is also a history in Indonesia of disenfranchisement in the name of conservation. This paper considers pathways to revitalizing marine tenure rights in Indonesia, documenting the evolution and current status of marine tenure rights in Indonesia, existing legal and policy frameworks that support marine tenure rights, and challenges to marine tenure rights. The paper concludes with recommendations for strengthening and expanding marine tenure rights in Indonesia and prospects for the development of a national policy on marine tenure rights."	NonUS	Conservation
"The Antarctic Treaty System (ATS) is considered a successful example of international governance as it has managed tensions over sovereignty claims, avoided militarisation and dealt with marine resources and environmental protection. Recently, China's influence and assertiveness in many international institutions have significantly grown. What effect this shift in the international politics will have upon Antarctic governance remains to be seen. However, to further thinking on this issue we explore two current case studies that reveal pressure points within the ATS. First, in the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, Australia has proposed marine protected areas off East Antarctica, to which China and several other states have objected. Second, in the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meetings, China has proposed special management arrangements for the area around the Kunlun station, to which Australia and several other states have objected. Negotiation theory suggests logrolling (i.e. trade of mutual decision-making support across issue areas) can be an effective strategy to avoid diplomatic deadlocks. We therefore consider the merits of a logrolling strategy for the above issues. We find that while a logrolling strategy in the ATS might facilitate short-term diplomatic success, it would carry significant risks, including the weakening of existing norms."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Pollution of coastal environments by anthropogenic debris is a global problem that is increasingly in the public eye. We evaluated the influence of socioeconomic and geographic factors on common debris items at a global scale. We compared debris density and socioeconomic drivers of the ten most common items reported on land and the seafloor, analyzing data from 22,508 land-based and 7,290 seafloor clean-ups and surveys across 116 and 118 countries, respectively. We found debris hotspots for different items span numerous countries across all continents. This demonstrates that the debris problem is global and heterogeneous, pointing to the transboundary nature of the issue and necessitating sub-national approaches to implementing effective solutions. Food and beverage packaging items, predominantly made from single-use plastics, accounted for much of the debris. Hotspots of individual debris items were differentially driven by socioeconomic factors. In general, total debris counts increased with the value of infrastructure, and decreased with national wealth. Highly polluted sites occurred in high-infrastructure, low-wealth locations such as Athens, Greece; Tunis, Tunisia and Lima, Peru. Based on these findings, we identify specific opportunities for policy makers and citizens alike to focus efforts aimed at reducing debris entering the environment."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Harmful algal blooms (HABs) present an emerging threat to human and ecosystem health in the Alaskan Arctic. Two HAB toxins are of concern in the region: saxitoxins (STXs), a family of compounds produced by the dinoflagellate Alexandrium catenella, and domoic acid (DA), produced by multiple species in the diatom genus Pseudo-nitzschia. These potent neurotoxins cause paralytic and amnesic shellfish poisoning, respectively, in humans, and can accumulate in marine organisms through food web transfer, causing illness and mortality among a suite of wildlife species. With pronounced warming in the Arctic, along with enhanced transport of cells from southern waters, there is significant potential for more frequent and larger HABs of both types. STXs and DA have been detected in the tissues of a range of marine organisms in the region, many of which are important food resources for local residents. The unique nature of the Alaskan Arctic, including difficult logistical access, lack of response infrastructure, and reliance of coastal populations on the noncommercial acquisition of marine resources for nutritional, cultural, and economic well-being, poses urgent and significant challenges as this region warms and the potential for impacts from HABs expands."	USA	Ecology
"Environmental governance systems are expanding in size and complexity as they become more integrated and ecosystem-based. In doing so, governance transitions often involve more actors and knowingly or unknowingly alter the autonomy of actors to make decisions, and thereby the ability of the governance system to self-organise. In other words, these governance systems are becoming increasingly polycentric, moving towards an institutional structure that is reported to confer a number of benefits to social-ecological systems. This article adds to a growing body of evidence on polycentric environmental governance in practice. It adds nuance to the normative and apolitical portrayals of governance transitions in general, and transitions towards more polycentric forms of governance in particular. We analyse the relations amongst actors and historical development of four large-scale marine governance systems in Southeast Asia to understand how context, particularly power, shapes the emergence and evolution of polycentric marine governance in practice. Our data indicate that transitions towards increased polycentricity do increase diversity and autonomy of decision-making centres, which can enable more innovation or flexibility to respond to changing circumstances. However, these innovations do not always underpin sustainability and equity. Coordination mechanisms are critical for channelling the power dynamics that emerge among diverse actors towards sustainability. Yet, in these emergent, ad hoc polycentric governance arrangements such mechanisms remained nascent, ineffective, or inactive. The transaction costs involved in coordinating a semi-autonomous polycentric system are seemingly difficult to overcome in low- to middle-income contexts and need investment in resources and accountability mechanisms."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"1. This study provides evidence that a heliophilic butterfly, the Glanville fritillary (Melitaea cinxia) has adapted differently to environmental variation across latitudes and elevations. 2. In cool air, basking M. cinxia orient themselves perpendicular to the sun's rays to gain heat and take off. During flight, solar heating is reduced because orientation perpendicular to the sun is no longer possible and convective cooling occurs. Consequently, M. cinxia have been shown to suffer net heat loss in flight, even in full sunshine. When flight duration is restricted in this way, the takeoff temperature becomes an important thermal adaptation. 3. Using a thermal imaging camera, takeoff temperatures were measured in experimental butterflies. Butterflies from the northern range limit in Finland took flight at slightly hotter temperatures than butterflies from the southern limit in Spain, and much hotter than butterflies from the elevational limit (1900-2300 m) in the French Alps. Butterflies from low-elevation populations in southern France also took off much hotter than did the nearby Alpine population. 4. These results suggest that the influence of elevation is different from that of latitude in more respects than ambient temperature. Values of solar irradiance in the butterflies' flight season in each region show that insects from the coolest habitats, Finland and the Alps, experienced similar solar irradiance during basking, but that Finns experienced much lower irradiance in flight. This difference may have favored Finnish butterflies evolving higher takeoff temperatures than Alpine butterflies that also flew in cool air but benefited from more intense radiant energy after takeoff."	USA	Ecology
"Globally, outbreaks of Avian Influenza Virus (AIV) in poultry continue to burden economies and endanger human, livestock and wildlife health. Wild waterbirds are often identified as possible sources for poultry infection. Therefore, it is important to understand the ecological and environmental factors that directly influence infection dynamics in wild birds, as these factors may thereby indirectly affect outbreaks in poultry. In Australia, where large parts of the country experience erratic rainfall patterns, intense rainfalls lead to wild waterfowl breeding events at temporary wetlands and increased proportions of immunologically naive juvenile birds. It is hypothesized that after breeding, when the temporary wetlands dry, increasing densities of immunologically naive waterbirds returning to permanent water bodies might strongly contribute to AIV prevalence in wild waterfowl in Australia. Since rainfall has been implicated as an important environmental driver in AIV dynamics in wild waterbirds in southeast Australia and wild waterbirds are identified globally to have a role in virus spillover into poultry, we hypothesise that rainfall events have an indirect effect on AIV outbreaks in poultry in southeast Australia. In this study we investigated this hypothesis by examining the correlation between the timing of AIV outbreaks in poultry in and near the Murray-Darling basin in relation to temporal patterns in regional rainfall since 1970. Our findings support our hypothesis and suggest that the risk of AIV outbreaks in poultry increases after a period of high rainfall, with peak AIV risk two years after the onset of the high-rainfall period. This is presumably triggered by increased rates of waterbird breeding and consequent higher proportions of immunologically naive juvenile waterbirds entering the population directly after major rainfall events, which subsequently aggregate near permanent water bodies when the landscape dries out."	NonUS	Ecology
"Foraging mammalian predators face a myriad of odors from potential prey. To be efficient, they must focus on rewarding odors while ignoring consistently unrewarding ones. This may be exploited as a nonlethal conservation tool if predators can be deceived into ignoring odors of vulnerable secondary prey. To explore critical design components and assess the potential gains to prey survival of this technique, we created an individual-based model that simulated the hunting behavior of three introduced mammalian predators on one of their secondary prey (a migratory shorebird) in the South Island of New Zealand. Within this model, we heuristically assessed the outcome of habituating the predators to human-deployed unrewarding bird odors before the bird's arrival at their breeding grounds, i.e., the predators were primed. Using known home range sizes and probabilities of predators interacting with food lures, our model suggests that wide-ranging predators should encounter a relatively large number of odor points (between 10 and 115) during 27 d of priming when odor is deployed within high-resolution grids (100-150 m). Using this information, we then modeled the effect of different habituation curves (exponential and sigmoidal) on the probability of predators depredating shorebird nests. Our results show that important gains in nest survival can be achieved regardless of the shape of the habituation curve, but particularly if predators are fast olfactory learners (exponential curve), and even if some level of dishabituation occurs after prey become available. Predictions from our model can inform the amount and pattern in which olfactory stimuli need to be deployed in the field to optimize encounters by predators, and the relative gains that can be expected from reduced predation pressure on secondary prey under different scenarios of predator learning. Habituating predators to odors of threatened secondary prey may have particular efficacy as a conservation tool in areas where lethal predator control is not possible or ethical, or where even low predator densities can be detrimental to prey survival. Our approach is also relevant for determining interaction probabilities for devices other than odor points, such as bait stations and camera traps."	NonUS	Conservation
"L-asparaginase is a cardinal biotherapeutic drug for treating acute lymphoblastic leukemia, which is highly prevalent in children worldwide. In the current investigation, L-asparaginase producing marine bacterial isolate, Bacillus australimaris NJB19 (MG734654), was observed to be producing extracellular glutaminase free L-asparaginase (1327 +/- 0.4 IU mL(-1)). Production of L-asparaginasc was enhanced by the Box-Behnken design approach that enumerated the significant variables affecting the enzyme production. The optimum levels of the derived variables resulted in 2.8-fold higher levels of the enzyme production (37.93 +/- 1.06 IU mL(-1)). An 1146 bp L-asparaginase biosynthetic gene of Bacillus australimaris NJB19 was identified and cloned in E. call DH5a, fused with a histidine tag. The in silico analysis of the protein sequence revealed the presence of a signal peptide and classified it as a type II L-asparaginase. Toxic peptide prediction disclosed no toxin domain in the protein sequence, hence suggesting it as a non-toxic protein. The secondary structure analysis of the enzyme displayed a comparable percentage of alpha-helical and random coil structure, while 14.39% and 6.57% of amino acid residues were composed of extended strands and beta-turns, respectively. The functional sites in the three-dimensional structural model of the protein were predicted and interestingly had a few less conserved residues. Bacillus australimaris NJB19 identified in this study produces type-II L-asparaginase, known for its high affinity for asparagine and effectiveness against leukemic cells. Hence, these observations indicate the Lasparaginase, thus obtained, as a potentially significant and novel therapeutic drug. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Genetics
"Ecological rarity, characterized by low abundance or limited distribution, is typical of most species,yet our understanding of what factors contribute to the persistence of rare species remains limited.Consequently, little is also known about whether rare species might respond differently than common species to direct (e.g., abiotic) and indirect (e. g., biotic) effects of climate change. We investigated the effects of warming and exclusion of large herbivores on 14 tundra taxa, three of which were common and 11 of which were rare, at an inland, low-arctic study site near Kangerlussuaq, Greenland. Across all taxa, pooled commonness was reduced by experimental warming, and more strongly under herbivore exclusion than under herbivory. However, taxon-specific analyses revealed that although warming elicited variable effects on commonness, herbivore exclusion disproportionately reduced the commonness of rare taxa. Over the 15-year duration of the experiment, we also observed trends in commonness and rarity under all treatments through time. Sitewide commonness increased for two common taxa, the deciduous shrubs Betula nana and Salix glauca, and declined in six other taxa, all of which were rare. Rates of increase or decline in commonness (i.e., temporal trends over the duration of the experiment) were strongly related to baseline commonness of taxa early in the experiment under all treatments except warming with grazing. Hence, commonness itself may be a strong predictor of species' responses to climate change in the arctic tundra biome, but large herbivores may mediate such responses in rare taxa, perhaps facilitating their persistence."	USA	ClimateChange
"As the global epicentre of wildlife trade, Hong Kong plays an important role in the preservation or demise of biodiversity, including species found continents away. If mismanaged, legal trade in threatened species can lead to unsustainable exploitation. Inaccurate and incomplete trade records from the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) undermine the regulation of this trade. We examine the trade of hippo (Hippopotamus amphibius) teeth to illustrate the extent of mismatched data between key trading nations. More than 90% of global hippo teeth trade is imported to, and re-exported from, Hong Kong. Of that imported, over 75% originated in Tanzania or Uganda, but there are notable disparities in declared trade volumes. In most transactions, Hong Kong declares more volume imported than the volume declared exported by Uganda. Overall, Hong Kong has reported the import of 3,176 kg more hippo teeth than declared exported by Tanzania. This indicates that actual trade levels may exceed internationally agreed quotas. In total, over 14,000 kg of hippo teeth is unaccounted for between Uganda and Hong Kong, representing more than 2,700 individual hippos 2% of the global population. This gross discordance in trade data undermines regulatory measures and challenges the persistence of hippo populations in Africa."	NonUS	Conservation
"West Asian drylands host a number of threatened large carnivores, including the leopard (Panthera pardus) which is limited generally to areas with low primary productivity. While conservation efforts have focused on these areas for several decades, reliable population density estimates are missing for many of them. Spatially explicit capture-recapture (SECR) methodology is a widely accepted population density estimation tool to monitor populations of large carnivores and it incorporates animal movement in the statistical estimation process. We employed multi-session maximum-likelihood SECR modeling to estimate the density of a small population of leopard in a mountainous environment surrounded by deserts in central Iran. During 6724 camera trap nights, we detected 8 and 5 independent leopards in 2012 and 2016 sessions, respectively. The top-performing model produced density estimates of 1.6 (95% CI = 0.9-2.9) and 1.0 (95% CI = 0.6-1.6) independent leopards/100 km(2) in 2012 and 2016, respectively. Both sex and season had substantial effects on spatial scale (sigma), with larger movements recorded for males, and during winter. The estimates from our density estimation exercise represent some of the lowest densities across the leopard global range and strengthen the notion that arid habitats support low densities of the species. These small populations are vulnerable to demographic stochasticity, and monitoring temporal changes in their population density and composition is a critical tool in assisting conservation managers to better understand their population performance."	NonUS	Conservation
"Aim: In the mid-20th century, many populations of large-bodied mammals experienced declines throughout North America. Fortunately, within the last several decades, some have begun to rebound and even recolonize extirpated portions of their native range, including black bears (Ursus americanus) in the montane areas of the western Great Basin. In this study, we examine genetic variation in source and recolonized areas to better understand the genetic consequences of recolonization. Location: Western Great Basin, USA. Methods: Using multiple loci, we characterized genetic variation among source and recently recolonized areas occupied by black bears, tested for population structure and applied approximate Bayesian computation to test competing hypotheses of demographic history. We assessed signals of gene flow using expectations of genetic consequences derived from alternative modes of recolonization (bottleneck, metapopulation, island model) and tested for significant signals of genetic bottlenecks in areas recently recolonized by black bears. Results: As anticipated from field survey data and hypothesized expectations, genetic variation of western Great Basin black bears retain an overall signature of demographic decline followed by recent rebound. Furthermore, results reveal that bears in the recolonized range are minimally differentiated from the source area, but newly established subpopulations have lower effective population sizes and reduced allelic diversity. Nevertheless, recolonized areas fail to show a significant signal of a genetic bottleneck. Moreover, bears occupying recolonized areas experience asymmetric gene flow, yielding strong support for a model of genetic connectivity that is best described as a metapopulation. Main Conclusion: This study presents one of the few empirical examples of genetic consequences of natural recolonization in large-bodied mammals. Furthermore, these results have implications for understanding the complexities associated with the genetic consequences of recent and ongoing recolonization and highlight the need to develop management strategies uniquely tailored to support connectivity between source and recolonized areas."	USA	Genetics
"Ojibwe Tribes' approach to the natural world is guided by the original treaties between beings (species and spirits) and the Ojibwe people who reside in lands now known as the United States and Canada. Relationships with these beings, such as ogaa (walleye Stizostedion vitreus), are best characterised as taking care of a relative/gift for the next seven generations of Ojibwe. Initial denial of treaty rights by the state government has strongly influenced tribes' relationship with their relatives for over 100 years. Ogaa stocks and natural reproduction have declined in the Minocqua Chain of Lakes (Wisconsin, USA) over the last 20 years. Region-wide declines in ogaa have been attributed to many stressors such as overharvest by state-licensed anglers, invasive species and climate change. Here, we retroactively applied the resist-accept-direct (RAD) framework to the process used to create an interjurisdictional rehabilitation plan for the Minocqua Chain of Lakes. Specifically, we cover the following: progress to date on the rehabilitation plan; subsistence, cultural and spiritual challenges associated with resisting ecosystem change; unforeseen obstacles to rehabilitation; re-evaluation of the relationship with ogaa; unknowns; and contingency plans from a tribal perspective. Lastly, we discuss how the RAD framework could become more useful to tribes in the region."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"Three new non-geniculate coralline algal species from South Africa are described that were passing under the misapplied name, Spongites yendoi. Based on plastid encoded DNA sequences from psbA and rbcL markers, these species belong in the subfamily Chamberlainoideae. The DNA sequences, supported by the morphoanatomical character of tetrasporangial conceptacle roof development, placed all three species in the genus Chamberlainium and not Pneophyllum, the only other genus in Chamberlainoideae. In addition to the diagnostic DNA sequences, Chamberlainium capense sp. nov., C. glebosum sp. nov. and Chamberlainium occidentale sp. nov. may be distinguished by a combination of habit, habitat, geographic distribution, and several morpho-anatomical features. Biogeographically all three species are found in the Benguela Marine Province of South Africa, with C. occidentale being the most widespread. Chamberlainium glebosum also has a wide, but disjunct distribution and C. capense is another South African endemic nongeniculate coralline, whose range is restricted to a 43 km stretch of coastline. Thus far, DNA sequences from type specimens of non-geniculate corallines show that only those species whose type localities are from South Africa are correctly applied; all other non-geniculate coralline names are likely misapplied in South Africa."	NonUS	Genetics
"Background: Marine soundscape is the aggregation of sound sources known as geophony, biophony, and anthrophony. The soundscape analysis, in terms of collection and analysis of acoustic signals, has been proposed as a tool to evaluate the specific features of ecological assemblages and to estimate their acoustic variability over space and time. This study aimed to characterise the Capo Caccia-Isola Piana Marine Protected Area (Italy, Western Mediterranean Sea) soundscape over short temporal (few days) and spatial scales (few km) and to quantify the main anthropogenic and biological components, with a focus on fish biophonies. Methods: Within the MPA, three sites were chosen each in a different protection zone (A for the integral protection, B as the partial protection, and C as the general protection). In each site, two underwater autonomous acoustic recorders were deployed in July 2020 at a depth of about 10 m on rocky bottoms. To characterise the contribution of both biophonies and anthrophonies, sea ambient noise (SAN) levels were measured as sound pressure level (SPL dB re: 1 mu Pa-rms) at eight 1/3 octave bands, centred from 125 Hz to 16 kHz, and biological and anthropogenic sounds were noted. Fish sounds were classified and counted following a catalogue of known fish sounds from the Mediterranean Sea based on the acoustic characteristic of sound types. A contemporary fish visual census had been carried out at the test sites. Results: SPL were different by site, time (day vs. night), and hour. SPLs bands centred at 125, 250, and 500 Hz were significantly higher in the daytime, due to the high number of boats per minute whose noise dominated the soundscapes. The loudest man-made noise was found in the A zone, followed by the B and the C zone, confirming that MPA current regulations do not provide protection from acoustic pollution. The dominant biological components of the MPA soundscape were the impulsive sounds generated by some invertebrates, snapping shrimps and fish. The vast majority of fish sounds were recorded at the MPA site characterized by the highest sound richness, abundance, and Shannon-Wiener index, coherently with the results of a fish visual census. Moreover, the acoustic monitoring detected a sound associated with a cryptic species (Ophidion spp.) never reported in the study area before, further demonstrating the usefulness of passive acoustic monitoring as a complementary technique to species census. This study provides baseline data to detect future changes of the marine soundscapes and some suggestions to reduce the impact of noise on marine biodiversity."	NonUS	Ecology
"Terrestrial, freshwater, and marine ecosystems are connected via multiple biophysical and ecological processes. Identifying and quantifying links among ecosystems is necessary for the uptake of integrated conservation actions across realms. Such actions are particularly important for species using habitats in more than one realm during their daily or life cycle. We reviewed information on the habitats of 2,408 species of European conservation concern and found that 30% of the species use habitats in multiple realms. Transportation and service corridors, which fragment species habitats, were identified as the most important threat impacting similar to 70% of the species. We examined information on 1,567 European Union (EU) conservation projects funded over the past 25 years, to assess the adequacy of efforts toward the conservation of multi-realm species at a continental scale. We discovered that less than a third of multi-realm species benefited from projects that included conservation actions across multiple realms. To achieve the EU's conservation target of halting biodiversity loss by 2020 and effectively protect multi-realm species, integrated conservation efforts across realms should be reinforced by: (1) recognizing the need for integrated management at a policy level, (2) revising conservation funding priorities across realms, and (3) implementing integrated land-freshwater-sea conservation planning and management."	NonUS	Conservation
"Although the Orton's rule was already questioned for several invertebrate lineages, it remains unchallenged in sponges. To assess its validity in Porifera, we investigated the reproductive cycle of five species of Demospongiae on a tropical rocky shore, aiming to determine the effect of some environmental variables (EVs) on the periodicity, density of reproductive elements, and population engagement in reproduction. All species reproduced continuously, with low percentage of reproductive individuals and low fecundity. Each species presented a set of models containing different EVs to explain their reproductive traits. In general, the relationship of the EVs on the percentage of reproductive individuals and density of gametes and embryos was delayed in 1-3 months. Temperature was amongst the factors that best explained the species reproduction, with a delay of 1 month being the factor most consistently found amongst the models. In addition, we carried out a meta-analysis and discovered that in temperate regions most species reproduced periodically, whilst in the tropics, a small percentage reproduced continuously. Our findings suggest that Orton's Rule is partially sustained, as species reproduced continuously, but challenge the lack of the influence of the temperature and other EVs in the reproduction of tropical marine invertebrates."	NonUS	Ecology
"Assessing how climate change information is used in conservation planning is an important part of meeting long-term conservation and climate adaptation goals. In the United States, state agencies responsible for fish and wildlife management create State Wildlife Action Plans (SWAPs) to identify conservation goals, prioritize actions, and establish plans for managing and monitoring target species and habitats. We created a rubric to assess and compare the use of climate change information in SWAPs for 10 states in the Intermountain West and Great Plains. Interviews with SWAP authors identified institutional factors influencing applications of climate change information. Access to professional networks and climate scientists, funding support for climate change vulnerability analysis, Congressional mandates to include climate change, and supportive agency leadership facilitate using climate change information. Political climate could either support or limit options for using this information. Together, the rubric and the interview results can be used to identify opportunities to improve the use of climate information, and to identify entry points to support conservation planning and natural resource managers in successful adaptation to climate change. This research is directly relevant to future SWAP revisions, which most states will complete by 2025, and more broadly to other conservation planning processes."	USA	ClimateChange
"Conservation Development (CD) is a strategy for conserving private lands with the potential to protect biodiversity while meeting growing demands for housing. Although CD is increasingly common, little is known about how CDs are implemented, and whether developers and homeowners follow best practices and achieve conservation objectives. We formally assessed the presence and content of management plans and conservation easements for CD subdivisions (n = 302) in six Colorado counties and documented the land uses and stewardship activities that are prohibited, permitted, encouraged, or required in the protected open space of each CD. We found that a majority (69%) of CDs had management documents on file, but their prevalence varied from 0 to 82% among the six counties. Fewer than one-third (29%) of the management documents stated a value or purpose for preserving the land, and objectives associated with human values (e.g., preservation of scenic or agricultural values), were far more prevalent (65-78% of documents with stated reasons for preservation) than objectives associated with conservation goals (e.g., preservation of wildlife, ecological/environmental values) (12-46%). Restrictions on land subdivision and regulation regarding the number and type of structures were most frequently included in management documents (84%), whereas guidelines for wildlife habitat improvement, species-specific monitoring and management, homeowner education, and access to the open space by domestic pets were rarely mentioned (all < 18%). By identifying common deficiencies in management documents, this study will help planners, developers, and homeowners more successfully implement CDs that effectively protect and maintain biodiversity on private lands over the long term."	USA	Conservation
"This study investigates the perception of the impact of climate change on the livelihoods of small-scale fishing communities in the Western Region of Ghana. A mixed-method approach was employed, consisting of a survey of 400 fisherfolk households and 20 interviews with stakeholders. Changes in rainfall pattern, decreasing rainfall, stronger waves and storms that increase coastal erosion and cause persistent flooding were found to be the main effects of climate change on the livelihoods of small-scale coastal fisherfolk. Transnational fishing practices by fisherfolk in response to climate change contributed to the building of resilience of fishing households, while other adaptation strategies appeared to be insufficient in the long run. Coastal communities are not homogenous with respect to climate change impacts and corresponding adaptation strategies. Based on the empirical results, policy implications are suggested related to early warning systems and multiscalar marine planning."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Leisure boating is an important economic activity which is increasing in popularity worldwide, and the Mediterranean Sea is one of the most popular nautical tourism destinations in the world. While the overall ecological impacts of recreational boating on freshwater ecosystems have been relatively well studied, very few works have assessed its impacts on marine ecosystems. This is the first holistic review of the ecological impacts of leisure boating in the Mediterranean Sea. Impacts are classified in different categories and rated following a risk assessment matrix. Major or high impacts include anchoring impacts on seagrass meadows (Posidonia oceanica), motor noise disturbance, toxic antifouling products, and transport of exotic species. Moderate impacts include discharge of grey waters, air pollution, and fuel and oil leaks. Low impacts include sediment resuspension, discharge of black waters and marine litter, artificial light emissions, and animal feeding. The conclusion drawn is that there is an urgent need to raise awareness of the potential impacts of leisure boating in Mediterranean coastal environments. Greater research effort is required to monitor these ecological impacts and pressures, especially in marine protected areas (MPAs), with the aim of drawing up management measures to mitigate the identified impacts. Furthermore, a holistic approach involving marine scientists and engineers, policy makers, and the boating industry needs to be adopted to lower the impacts of recreational boating both in the Mediterranean and in other parts of the world."	NonUS	Ecology
"The knowledge on the presence of pharmaceutical compounds, and possible risks, in coastal and marine systems is still limited. This study represents the first attempt at monitoring psychoactive pharmaceuticals (PaPs) (benzodiazepines and anxiolytics) and illicit drugs (IDs) in the Rias Baixas coastal area of Northwestern Spain, an area of economic and ecological relevance, leader in shellfish production. Fourteen PaPs and 9 IDs were detected in the water samples with venlafaxine (59%), benzoylecgonine (40%), EDDP (40%), and citalopram (36%) showing the highest detection frequencies. The highest concentrations were measured for venlafaxine (291 ng L-1), benzoylecgonine (142 ng L-1), lorazepam (95.9 ng L-1), and citalopram (92.5 ng L-1). Risk assessment, based on hazard quotients suggested that venlafaxine, citalopram, sertraline, and EDDP were present in concentrations potentially able to cause chronic effects in exposed organisms. Based on the results obtained further monitoring of venlafaxine, citalopram, and EDDP in coastal waters is recommended. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd."	NonUS	Ecology
"Diversification and speciation of terrestrial organisms are anticipated in oceanic islands such as Macaronesia, a group of Atlantic islands that have remained unconnected to continental landmasses. Hitherto, the diversification of marine organisms in oceanic islands, especially those with low vagility, has received little direct empirical analysis using molecular markers. Here, we focus on such a case study, through applying a multilocus molecular approach to investigate the diversity and evolution of a group that lacks a planktonic larval stage, the isopod genus Dynamene, in Macaronesia and Northeast Atlantic. Sequences of two mitochondrial (cytochrome c oxidase subunit I and 16S rRNA) and two nuclear (18S rRNA and 28S rRNA) loci were obtained from specimens of Dynamene edwardsi (Lucas, 1849), Dynamene magnitorata Holdich, 1968 and Dynamene bidentata (Adams, 1800) collected along the Northeast Atlantic and Macaronesia. Although no major phylogeographic structure was detected in D. bidentata and D. magnitorata, from five to nine deeply divergent lineages were evident within D. edwardsi. The divergent lineages displayed genetic distances comparable to those found among established species of peracarids. D. edwardsi exhibits a long, rich and complex phylogeographic history in Macaronesia, where the geodynamics of the islands possibly associated with founder effects and subsequent lack of gene flow among populations confounds patterns based on geographic proximity of targeted populations. Our findings collectively suggest a much larger role of oceanic islands in the diversification of marine invertebrates than previously anticipated. The work provides insights into the origins and dynamics of ongoing geographic segregation and associated deep divergence among sister evolutionary lineages in Macaronesia."	NonUS	Genetics
"Fin whales (Balaenoptera physalus) are widely considered an offshore and oceanic species, but certain populations also use coastal areas and semi-enclosed seas. Based upon fifteen years of study, we report that Canadian Pacific fin whales (B. p. velifera) have returned to the Kitimat Fjord System (KFS) in the Great Bear Rainforest, and have established a seasonally resident population in its intracoastal waters. This is the only fjord system along this coast or elsewhere in which fin whales are known to occur regularly with strong site fidelity. The KFS was also the only Canadian Pacific fjord system in which fin whales were commonly found and killed during commercial whaling, pointing to its long-term importance. Traditional knowledge, whaling records, and citizen science databases suggest that fin whales were extirpated from this area prior to their return in 2005-2006. Visual surveys and mark-recapture analysis documented their repopulation of the area, with 100-120 whales using the fjord system in recent years, as well as the establishment of a seasonally resident population with annual return rates higher than 70%. Line transect surveys identified the central and outer channels of the KFS as the primary fin whale habitat, with the greatest densities occurring in Squally Channel and Caamano Sound. Fin whales were observed in the KFS in most months of the year. Vessel- and shore-based surveys (27,311 km and 6,572 hours of effort, respectively) indicated regular fin whale presence (2,542 detections), including mother-calf pairs, from June to October and peak abundance in late August-early September. Seasonal patterns were variable year-to-year, and several lines of evidence indicated that fin whales arrived and departed from the KFS repeatedly throughout the summer and fall. Additionally, we report on the population's social network and morphometrics. These findings offer insights into the dynamics of population recovery in an area where several marine shipping projects are proposed. The fin whales of the Great Bear Rainforest represent a rare exception to general patterns in this species' natural history, and we highlight the importance of their conservation."	NonUS	Ecology
"The persistence of scleractinian coral populations on the Florida Reef Tract (FRT) is controlled in part by metapopulation dynamics and larval dispersal. Nine polymorphic microsatellite loci were analyzed to characterize contemporary population structure and gene flow as well as historical migration rates of Montastraea cavernosa at five sites off Martin, Palm Beach, and Broward counties in southeast Florida. The sampled populations demonstrated evidence of genetic isolation by distance over a geographic range of 85 km. Population genetic structure was divided into two genetic clusters, northern and southern, with admixture along a latitudinal gradient. Historical migration models indicated likely panmixia throughout all sites sampled, identifying a potential reduction in connectivity among the sampled populations through time. Though M. cavernosa populations demonstrated evidence of historical connectivity, contemporary patterns of isolation by distance suggest that effective management will require localized actions to maximize the likelihood of sustaining individual populations in the northern FRT. Given the results of this study, coupled with recent coral mortality events in the region, we recommend regional conservation efforts and management initiatives throughout southeast Florida within a more comprehensive FRT-wide management network."	USA	Genetics
"While top-down control plays an important role in shaping both natural and agricultural food webs, we lack insights into how top-down control effects vary across spatial scales. We used a multi-scale survey of top-down control of coffee pests and diseases by arboreal ants to examine if colony location creates a small-scale mosaic in top-down control around trees and if the strength of that control varies between sites at the landscape scale. We investigated pest and disease levels on coffee shrubs at different distances from shade trees with and without a Crematogaster spp. ant colony in 59 sites along a coffee management intensity gradient in southwestern Ethiopia. Within sites, ants significantly suppressed herbivory and coffee leaf rust at distances less than 10 m from nesting trees. Top-down control varied between sites, with stronger top-down control of free-feeding herbivory near ant colonies at sites with lower management intensity and stronger top-down control of a skeletonizer at sites with higher canopy cover. We conclude that the strength of top-down control by ants is highly heterogeneous across spatial scales, as a consequence of the biology of the predator at the small scale and herbivore density or changes in herbivore-ant interactions at the landscape scale."	NonUS	Ecology
"Wild birds, particularly silver gulls (Chroicocephalus novaehollandiae) that nest near anthropogenic sites, often harbour bacteria resistant to multiple antibiotics, including those considered of clinical importance. Here, we describe the whole genome sequence of Escherichia coli isolate CE1867 from a silver gull chick sampled in 2012 that hosted an I1 pST25 plasmid with bla(SHV-12), a beta-lactamase gene that encodes the ability to hydrolyze oxyimino beta-lactams, and other antibiotic resistance genes. Isolate CE1867 is an ST297 isolate, a phylogroup B1 lineage, and clustered with a large ST297 O130:H11 Glade, which carry Shiga toxin genes. The I1 plasmid belongs to plasmid sequence type 25 and is notable for its carriage of an atypical sul3-class 1 integron with mefB(Delta 260), a structure most frequently reported in Australia from swine. This integron is a typical example of a Tn21-derived element that captured sul3 in place of the standard sull structure. Interestingly, the mercury resistance (mer) module of Tn21 is missing and has been replaced with Tn2-bla(TEM-1) and a bla(SHV-12) encoding module flanked by direct copies of IS26. Comparisons to similar plasmids, however, demonstrate a closely related family of ARG-carrying plasmids that all host variants of the sul3-associated integron with conserved Tn21 insertion points and a variable presence of both mer and mefB truncations, but predominantly mefB(Delta 260)."	NonUS	Genetics
"During migrations, birds are exposed to a wide variety of parasites. It has been suggested that shorebird migration and other movements play a critical role in structuring their parasite communities. The objective of this study was to characterize the helminth communities of two sympatric Nearctic migratory shorebird species in their non-breeding grounds in Argentine Patagonia and to assess what factors influence their structuring. The migration of these two bird species span from pole to pole as they breed in the Canadian Arctic and winter at southernmost South America. In contrast to the Arctic, the helminth communities of these birds have never been studied at their austral non-breeding sites. A total of 44 Calidris bairdii and 50 Calidris fuscicollis collected at various coastal marine and inland sites were analyzed for helminths. Ecological parameters were calculated at component community (host population) and infracommunity (single individual hosts) levels. A total of 26 helminth taxa were found, included in 14 families and 20 genera. Results showed that parasite richness and total prevalence were higher in C. bairdii than in C. fuscicollis. Richness, diversity, dominance and abundance values in the infracommunities were generally low, being lower in C. fuscicollis. The infracommunities were characterized by being heterogeneous, unstructured and unpredictable. Possible causes of this pattern are discussed. It is clear that multiple factors influence parasitic diversity; however, considering our observations, we think that habitat use is possibly the main structuring factor of the helminth communities of these two shorebird species."	NonUS	Ecology
"Motivation: Viruses infect, reprogram and kill microbes, leading to profound ecosystem consequences, from elemental cycling in oceans and soils to microbiome-modulated diseases in plants and animals. Although metagenomic datasets are increasingly available, identifying viruses in them is challenging due to poor representation and annotation of viral sequences in databases. Results: Here, we establish efam, an expanded collection of Hidden Markov Model (HMM) profiles that represent viral protein families conservatively identified from the Global Ocean Virome 2.0 dataset. This resulted in 240 311 HMM profiles, each with at least 2 protein sequences, making efam >7-fold larger than the next largest, panecosystem viral HMM profile database. Adjusting the criteria for viral contig confidence from 'conservative' to 'eXtremely Conservative' resulted in 37 841 HMM profiles in our efam-XC database. To assess the value of this resource, we integrated efam-XC into VirSorter viral discovery software to discover viruses from less-studied, ecologically distinct oxygen minimum zone (OMZ) marine habitats. This expanded database led to an increase in viruses recovered from every tested OMZ virome by similar to 24% on average (up to similar to 42%) and especially improved the recovery of often-missed shorter contigs (<5 kb). Additionally, to help elucidate lesser-known viral protein functions, we annotated the profiles using multiple databases from the DRAM pipeline and virion-associated metaproteomic data, which doubled the number of annotations obtainable by standard, single-database annotation approaches. Together, these marine resources (efam and efam-XC) are provided as searchable, compressed HMM databases that will be updated bi-annually to help maximize viral sequence discovery and study from any ecosystem."	USA	Technology
"An understanding of the distribution range and status of a species is paramount for its conservation. We used photo captures from 26,838 camera traps deployed over 121,337 km(2) along with data from radio-telemetry, published, and authenticated wolf sightings to infer wolf locations. A total of 3,324 presence locations were obtained and after accounting for spatial redundancy 574 locations were used for modeling in maximum entropy framework (MaxEnt) with ecologically relevant covariates to infer potentially occupied habitats. Relationships of wolf occurrence with eco-geographical variables were interpreted based on response curves. Wolves avoided dense wet forests, human disturbances beyond a threshold, arid deserts, and areas with high top-carnivore density, but occurred in semi-arid scrub, grassland, open forests systems with moderate winter temperatures. The potential habitat that can support wolf occupancy was 364,425 km(2) with the largest wolf habitat available in western India (Saurashtra-Kachchh-Thar landscape 102,837 km(2)). Wolf habitats across all landscapes were connected with no barriers to dispersal. Breeding packs likely occurred in approximate to 89,000 km(2). Using an average territory size of 188 (SE 23) km(2), India could potentially hold 423-540 wolf packs. With an average adult pack size of 3 (SE 0.24), and a wolf density < 1 per 100 km(2) in occupied but non-breeding habitats, a wolf population of 3,170 (SE range 2,568-3,847) adults was estimated. The states of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Maharashtra were major strongholds for the species. Within forested landscapes, wolves tended to avoid top-carnivores but were more sympatric with leopards and dhole compared to tigers and lions. This ancient wolf lineage is threatened by habitat loss to development, hybridization with dogs, fast-traffic roads, diseases, and severe persecution by pastoralists. Their status is as precarious as that of the tiger, yet focused conservation efforts are lacking. Breeding habitat patches within each landscape identified in this study should be made safe from human persecution and free of feral dogs so as to permit packs to breed and successfully recruit individuals to ensure wolf persistence in the larger landscape for the long term."	NonUS	Conservation
"Amdoparvoviruses (family Parvoviridae) are ssDNA viruses that cause an immune complex-mediated wasting syndrome in carnivores. They are multi-host pathogens and cross-species infection is facilitated by the fact that viral entry is mediated by cellular Fc receptors recognizing antibody-coated viruses. We developed a pan-amdoparvovirus PCR and screened tissue samples from 666 wild carnivores (families Felidae, Canidae, and Mustelidae) from Newfoundland or Labrador (Canada) and molecularly characterized the identified strains. Fifty-four out of 666 (8.1%) animals were amdoparvovirus-positive. Infection rate was the highest in American mink (34/47, 72.3%), followed by foxes (Arctic and red foxes, 13/311, 4.2%), lynx (2/58, 3.5%), and American martens (5/156, 3.4%). No virus was detected in samples from 87 coyotes and 17 ermines. Viruses from Newfoundland were classified as Aleutian mink disease virus (AMDV). Mink harvested near AMDV-affected fur farms had higher prevalence (24/24, 100%) than other mink (10/23, 43.5%; P<0.001) and their viruses were phylogenetically closely related to those from farms, while most viruses from other mink were in other clades. Strains from three foxes and two lynx were highly related to mink strains. This proves that farms disperse AMDV that subsequently spreads among wild mink (maintenance host) and transmits to other spillover carnivore hosts. In Labrador two novel viruses were identified, Labrador amdoparvovirus 1 (LaAV-1) found in foxes (9/261, 3.5%) and martens (5/156, 3.4%), and LaAV-2 found in one fox (0.4%). LaAV-1 fulfills all requirements to be classified as a novel species. LaAV-1 was most similar to viruses of mink and skunks (AMDV and skunk amdoparvovirus (SKAV)) while LaAV-2 was more closely related to other viruses infecting canids. LaAV-1 capsid proteins were almost indistinguishable from those of AMDV in some regions, suggesting that LaAV-1 could be a virus of mustelids that can infect foxes. While intensive farming practices provide occasions for inter-species transmission in farms, niche overlap or predation could explain cross-species transmission in the wild, but competition among sympatric species reduces the chances of direct contacts, making this an infrequent event. Pan-amdoparvovirus detection methods in wide epidemiological investigations can play a crucial role in defining amdoparvoviral ecology and evolution and discovering novel viruses."	NonUS	Genetics
"Marine wildlife tourism is growing in popularity and in the number of studies examining its impacts. These studies focus nearly exclusively on the industry's target species, overlooking a myriad of non-target organisms that may also be affected. Here, the dietary effects of bait and chum input from the white shark cage-diving industry were assessed for eight non-target species from different functional groups (pelagic fishes, reef fishes, and rays), across two sites with different intensity of wildlife tourism, and compared to a control site with no wildlife tourism. Stomach content, fatty acid profiles, and nitrogen stable isotope values revealed site-specific diets for all eight species, consistent with the consumption of bait and chum at both cage-diving sites. However, these dietary shifts were incongruent with the extent of bait and chum input at North and South Neptune Islands. Species within each functional group responded differently to bait and chum, demonstrating the complexity of understanding the effects of wildlife tourism on non-target species. We suggest that appropriate management comprises an ecosystem-approach inclusive of non-target species."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The frosted elfin (Callophrys irus) contains a disjunct subspecies (C. i. hadros) found in Texas, Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana that is being considered for listing under the Endangered Species Act as part of the C. irus complex. We assessed the distribution and habitat preferences of this subspecies in Arkansas. From 2018-2020, we surveyed sites of historical records and other suspected habitat for the butterfly and measured habitat variables that could predict occupancy. We detected C. i. hadros at 45 sites out of 208 sites with Baptisia host plants. Host plant number, density, and patch area were significant predictors of butterfly presence. A targeted analysis of one large population found habitat differences between occupied sites and randomly selected sites within the habitat (MANOVA, F-7,F-46 = 2.47, p = 0.031). Individual contrasts showed that Baptisia percent cover (p = 0.008) and Baptisia abundance (p = 0.016) were higher at occupied sites compared to random sites, while shrub percent cover was lower at occupied sites (p = 0.044). Our results indicate that habitat requirements for this species are somewhat flexible, provided larval host plant species are present at a reasonably large site. Callophrys irus hadros appears widespread but local in the southern and western portions of Arkansas, with many more populations than previously known. However, the majority of detections occurred on public and private rights-of-way, such as utility lines and roadsides. Thus, conservation plans for the frosted elfin may benefit from incorporating habitats currently managed for anthropogenic, rather than conservation, purposes."	USA	Conservation
"Research on emerging infectious diseases calls for a work on collections of pathogens (including hosts or vectors from which the pathogens were isolated), related to human and animal health, to wildlife or on the environmental material. In this respect, the adoption of a One Health perspective is determined by the need for a common approach to consider the collection, storage and use of pathogens coming from human or non-human sources, and particularly when the same pathogen is taken from different environments. In response to this development, our purpose is to delineate a flexible regulation framework concerning collections of pathogens from various origins or hosts and their associated data in order to facilitate scientific work and research partnerships. The legal and ethical cutting-edge research on Biomedical Big Data is particularly stimulating when it comes to address challenges related to collections or biobanks of pathogens such as prior informed consent and accessibility, Material Transfer Agreement or benefit sharing."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Conservation planning is increasingly using coarse filters based on the idea of conserving nature's stage. One such approach is based on ecosystems and the concept of ecological integrity, although myriad ways exist to measure ecological integrity. To describe our ecosystem-based index of ecological integrity (IEI) and its derivative index of ecological impact (ecoImpact), and illustrate their applications for conservation assessment and planning in the northeastern United States. We characterized the biophysical setting of the landscape at the 30 m cell resolution using a parsimonious suite of settings variables. Based on these settings variables and mapped ecosystems, we computed a suite of anthropogenic stressor metrics reflecting intactness (i.e., freedom from anthropogenic stressors) and resiliency metrics (i.e., connectivity to similar neighboring ecological settings), quantile-rescaled them by ecosystem and geographic extent, and combined them in a weighted linear model to create IEI. We used the change in IEI over time under a land use scenario to compute ecoImpact. We illustrated the calculation of IEI and ecoImpact to compare the ecological integrity consequences of a 70-year projection of urban growth to an alternative scenario involving securing a network of conservation core areas (reserves) from future development. IEI and ecoImpact offer an effective way to assess ecological integrity across the landscape and examine the potential ecological consequences of alternative land use and land cover scenarios to inform conservation decision making."	USA	Conservation
"Micro-(<5 mm) and nanoplastics (<1 mu m) are emerging threats for marine ecosystems worldwide. Brine shrimp Artemia is recognized as a suitable model among planktonic species for studying the impact of polystyrene nanoparticles (PS NPs) through short and long-term bioassays. Our study aims to evaluate the time-dependent effects of cationic amino-modified PS-NH2 (50 nm) in A. franciscana after short- (48 h) and long-term exposure (14 days). For this purpose, nauplii were exposed to a concentration range of PS-NH2 (0.1, 1, 3 and 10 mu g/mL) in natural sea water (NSW), and physiological, biochemical and molecular responses were investigated. Shortterm exposure to PS-NH2 caused a decrease in nauplii growth and affected the development in a concentration-dependent manner, long-term exposure impaired the survival, but not the growth and feeding behavior. Oxidative stress was detected after short term exposure as the decrease in the activity of antioxidant enzymes, and was fully evident in the long-term as lipid peroxidation, suggesting an accumulative effect. The decrease in Cholinesterase (ChE) activity observed indicates possible neurotoxic action of PS-NH2. Also, Carboxylesterase (CbE) inhibition by PS-NH2, described for the first time in this study, anticipates potential effects in biotransformation of exogenous and endogenous compounds, being the crustacean juvenile hormone methyl farnesoate (MF) that regulates development and molting, one candidate. Furthermore, short- and long-term exposure to PS-NH2 affect the expression of genes involved in cell protection, development and molting. Overall, our results reveal that low PS-NH2 concentrations induce physiological, biochemical and molecular (changes in gene expression) alterations in Artemia, and point at their potential risk for this model organism, supporting the general concern about nanoplastics occurrences in aquatic environments and their ability to represent an ecological threat for aquatic zooplanktonic species. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Designed as a new method to facilitate the reintroduction and post-release monitoring of orangutans and other apes, implanted radio-telemetry (IRT) was developed and first deployed in 2009. Since that time, it has been necessary to collate and review information on its uptake and general efficacy to inform its ongoing development and that of other emerging tracking technologies. We present here technical specifications and the surgical procedure used to implant miniaturized radio transmitters, as well as a formal testing procedure for measuring detectable transmission distances of implanted devices. Feedback from IRT practitioners (veterinarians and field managers) was gathered through questionnaires and is also presented. To date, IRT has been used in at least 250 individual animals (mainly orangutans) from four species of ape in both Asia and Africa. Median surgical and wound healing times were 30 min and 15 days, respectively, with implants needing to be removed on at least 36 separate occasions. Confirmed failures within the first year of operation were 18.1%, while longer distances were reported from positions of higher elevation relative to the focal animal. IRT has been a transformational technology in facilitating the relocation of apes after their release, resulting in much larger amounts of post-release data collection than ever before. It is crucial however, that implant casings are strengthened to prevent the requirement for recapture and removal surgeries, especially for gradually adapting apes. As with all emerging technological solutions, IRT carries with it inherent risk, especially so due to the requirement for subcutaneous implantation. These risks must, however, be balanced with the realities of releasing an animal with no means of relocation, as has historically been, and is still, the case with orangutans and gorillas."	NonUS	Technology
"In semi-arid ecosystems, timing and availability of water is a key uncertainty associated with conservation planning for wetland-dependent wildlife. Wetlands compose only 1-3% of these landscapes; however, large populations of migratory waterbirds rely on these wetlands to support energetically demanding life history events such as breeding and migration. Migration is considered a crucial period for birds associated with individual survival and reproductive success, yet our understanding of migration ecology remains limited. To better inform conservation planning supportive of these demands, we quantified synchrony of wetland flooding and waterbird migration by reconstructing bi-monthly surface water patterns from 1984 to 2015 across 11.4 million ha of the semi-arid Great Basin, USA. Results were then linked to seasonal migration chronologies for seven dabbling ducks species. Seasonal patterns were used in landscape planning simulations to assess efficiency in conservation strategies that aligned temporally sensitive wetland flooding and species migration. Wetland data were combined with land tenure to evaluate periodicity in waterfowl reliance on public and private lands. We found migration chronologies misaligned with wetland flooding. In spring, half (4359%) to three-quarters (68-74%) of seasonal wetlands were flooded and available to early-and latemigrating species while seasonal drying restricted wetland flooding to 13-20% of sites during fall migration. Simulations showed wetland conservation inconsiderate of temporal availability was only 67-75% efficient in meeting waterfowl habitat goals on private lands that made up similar to 70% of flooded wetland area in spring. Private-public wetland flooding was equivalent during fall migration. Accounting for spatiotemporal patterns of wetland flooding is imperative to improving efficiencies linked to migratory bird conservation. Timing of public-private wetland flooding, demonstrated by our models, provides landscape context that emphasized a joint role in supporting migratory waterbird habitat. Integrated management scenarios may capitalize on public lands' flexibility to expand fall flooding to offset seasonal drying on private lands while targeted incentive-based conservation assures private wetland flooding in spring. Such scenarios illustrate benefits of holistic public-private wetlands management representing a forward-looking alternative that aligns conservation with forecasts of increasing water scarcity."	USA	Conservation
"High-affinity nitrate transporters are considered to be the major transporter system for nitrate uptake in diatoms. In the diatom genus Skeletonema, three forms of genes encoding high-affinity nitrate transporters (NRT2) were newly identified from transcriptomes generated as part of the marine microbial eukaryote transcriptome sequencing project. To examine the expression of each form of NRT2 under different nitrogen environments, laboratory experiments were conducted under nitrate-sufficient, ammonium-sufficient, and nitrate-limited conditions using three ecologically important Skeletonema species: S. dohrnii, S. menzelii, and S. marinoi. Primers were developed for each NRT2 form and species and Q-RT-PCR was performed. For each NRT2 form, the three Skeletonema species had similar transcriptional patterns. The transcript levels of NRT2:1 were significantly elevated under nitrogen-limited conditions, but strongly repressed in the presence of ammonium. The transcript levels of NRT2:2 were also repressed by ammonium, but increased 5- to 10-fold under nitrate-sufficient and nitrogen-limited conditions. Finally, the transcript levels of NRT2:3 did not vary significantly under various nitrogen conditions, and behaved more like a constitutively expressed gene. Based on the observed transcript variation among NRT2 forms, we propose a revised model describing nitrate uptake kinetics regulated by multiple forms of nitrate transporter genes in response to various nitrogen conditions in Skeletonema. The differential NRT2 transcriptional responses among species suggest that species-specific adaptive strategies exist within this genus to cope with environmental changes."	NonUS	Technology
"Stock assessment modeling provides a means to estimate the population dynamics of invasive fishes and may do so despite data limitations. Blue catfish (Ictalurus furcatus) were introduced to the Chesapeake Bay watershed to support recreational fisheries but also consume species of conservation need and economic importance. To assess management tradeoffs, managers need to understand the current status of the population and anticipate future population abundance and trends. A Bayesian size-based stock assessment model was used to estimate blue catfish abundance, fishing mortality, and size structure over time (2001-2016) in the tidal James River. The model estimated population size increases until around 2006, with declines in total abundance after 2011 and large blue catfish (>= 80 cm total length) after 2001. These first estimates of blue catfish population dynamics in the Chesapeake Bay region provide inputs for projection models to evaluate prospective management actions and identify monitoring needs."	USA	Fisheries
"Understanding patterns of population diversity and structuring among marine populations is of great importance for evolutionary biology, and can also directly inform fisheries management and conservation. In this study, genotyping-by-sequencing was used to assess population genetic diversity and connectivity of Sebastiscus marmoratus. Based on 130 individuals sampled from 10 locations in the northwestern Pacific Ocean, we identified and genotyped 17 653 single-nucleotide polymorphisms. The patterns of genetic diversity and population differentiation suggested that the Okinawa Trough might be the ancestral centre of S. marmoratus after the Last Glacial Maximum. A shallow genetic structure was observed among sampled populations based on the implemented structuring approaches. Surprisingly, we detected genetic homogeneity in two population pairs (i.e. Xiamen-Niigata and Zhuhai-Iki Island), in which populations have large geographical and latitudinal intervals. Population structure and allele frequency distribution based on outlier loci also mirrored the observed genetic homogeneity in the above-mentioned population pairs. Integrated with biological, environmental and genomic data, our results provide possible genetic evidence for parallel evolution. Our study also provides new perspectives on the population structure of S. marmoratus, which could have important implications for sound management and conservation of this fishery species."	NonUS	Genetics
"Assessing population responses to climate-related environmental change is key to understanding the adaptive potential of the species as a whole. Coralline algae are critical components of marine shallow water ecosystems where they function as important ecosystem engineers. Populations of the calcifying algae Corallina officinalis from the center (southern UK) and periphery (northern Spain) of the North Atlantic species natural distribution were selected to test for functional differentiation in thermal stress response. Physiological measurements of calcification, photosynthesis, respiration, growth rates, oxygen, and calcification evolution curves were performed using closed cell respirometry methods. Species identity was genetically confirmed via DNA barcoding. Through a common garden approach, we identified distinct vulnerability to thermal stress of central and peripheral populations. Southern populations showed a decrease in photosynthetic rate under environmental conditions of central locations, and central populations showed a decline in calcification rates under southern conditions. This shows that the two processes of calcification and photosynthesis are not as tightly coupled as previously assumed. How the species as whole will react to future climatic changes will be determined by the interplay of local environmental conditions and these distinct population adaptive traits. OPEN RESEARCH BADGES This article has earned an Open Materials Badge for making publicly available the components of the research methodology needed to reproduce the reported procedure and analysis. All materials are available at ."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Increasing threats to amphibian and reptile species raise the urgency of their conservation. However, relative to other vertebrate groups at risk, amphibians and reptiles have low and more variable social capital; they are not generally high-priority natural goods and services valued by people. Consequently, relative to other groups such as birds, mammals, and economically important fish, they garner fewer conservation resources. With increasing risks, their situation degrades. We examine five societal sectors with herpetofaunal conservation interests in the United States (local communities, people in defined geographies and jurisdictions, species and threat specialists and advocates, associated researchers, managers, and policy makers) to understand challenges of low and variable social capital for herpetofauna. With current trends of US public values changing from traditionalist consumerism of wildlife to mutualist coexistence philosophies, a refocus of outreach and inreach efforts could help reframe priorities toward species at greatest risk, rather than broad taxonomic biases. Integrated teams of engaged natural resource managers, researchers, and the interested public can help promote species- and issue-based programs to forestall losses, hence programmatically raising social capital. Heightened recognition of the importance of human relationships and herpetofaunal diversity among researchers, managers, policy makers, educators, artists, authors, citizens, and children could provide inertia to reframe conservation program effectiveness at local-to-national scales."	USA	Conservation
"Sperm performance is often tightly linked to male reproductive success. In many demersal gobiid fishes, the male attaches sperm embedded in a mucus produced by sperm-duct glands to the nest substrate before spawning takes place. Sperm are activated as the mucus and embedded gland content dissolve into the water. To test the importance of gland content on sperm function in Pomatoschistus minutus, a marine fish with external fertilization, we used a paired experimental design, with spermatozoa tested with and without sperm-duct gland content mixed into seawater. We measured sperm velocity, percentage of motile sperm and sperm viability over time. Sperm were found to swim 7.3% faster when gland content was mixed in the seawater. Percentage motile sperm was unaffected by the gland content. Sperm viability in seawater exceeded 24 h, but was unaffected by the gland content. An increase in sperm velocity of similar magnitude as found here has been shown by others to increase fertilization success. Since velocity-boosting properties of sperm-duct gland content have now been found in three distantly related goby species, this trait appears to be conserved across the Gobiidae family and may aid in reproduction across a range of species and environments. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper."	NonUS	Ecology
"Agricultural development was the major contributor to South America's designation as the continent with the highest rates of forest loss from 2000-2012. As the apex predator in the Neotropics, jaguars (Panthera onca) are dependent on forest cover but the species' response to habitat fragmentation in heterogeneous agricultural landscapes has not been a subject of extensive research. We used occupancy as a measure of jaguar habitat use in Colombia's middle Magdalena River valley which, as part of the intercontinental Tumbes-Choco-Magdalena biodiversity hotspot, is exceedingly fragmented by expanding cattle pastures and oil palm plantations. We used single-season occupancy models to analyze 9 months of data (2015-2016) from 70 camera trap sites. Given the middle Magdalena's status as a jaguar corridor and our possible violation of the occupancy models' demographic closure assumption, we interpreted our results as probability of habitat use (psi) by jaguars. We measured the associations between jaguar presence and coverage of forest, oil palm, and wetlands in radii buffers of 1, 3, and 5 km around each camera trap. Our camera traps recorded 77 jaguar detections at 25 of the camera trap sites (36%) during 15,305 trap nights. The probability of detecting jaguars, given their presence at a site, was 0.28 (0.03 SE). In the top-ranked model, jaguar habitat use was positively influenced by wetland coverage (beta = 7.16, 3.20 SE) and negatively influenced by cattle pastures (beta = -1.40, 0.63 SE), both in the 3 km buffers. We conclude that wetlands may serve as keystone habitats for jaguars in landscapes fragmented by cattle ranches and oil palm plantations. Greater focus on wetland preservation could facilitate jaguar persistence in one of the most important yet vulnerable areas of their distribution."	USA	Conservation
"Agriculture is one of the greatest threats to biodiversity worldwide, but knowledge of how agriculture modifies animal movement, which is crucial for survival, is limited. Here, we examined the effect of landscape composition on the movements of the oriental garden lizard Calotes versicolor in agricultural landscapes of north-central Pakistan. We radio-tracked 32 individuals over 5 months to determine whether land cover type (farmland, tree patches, grassland) influences hourly movement rate, inter-day distance moved, and activity area size. We found that hourly movement rates were higher in tree patches compared to grasslands, and higher when animals moved between land cover types rather than within individual land cover types. Activity area size and movement rates became smaller as the season progressed, but they did not differ according to animal sex or body size. Habitat selection analysis showed that lizards preferred tree patches, avoided farms, roads, water bodies and human dwellings, and used grasslands in proportion to availability. When lizards used farmlands, they were found in field margins 85% of the time. Our results emphasize the importance of treed areas as reptile habitat in these highly modified agricultural lands. Agricultural intensification that reduces the availability of tree patches and field margins will likely reduce the extent to which lizards can use the landscape by removing preferred habitat. Maintaining tree cover and small fields with field margins should promote the coexistence of wildlife conservation and food production in agricultural landscapes."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"1. Protection of coastal ecosystems from deforestation may be the best way to protect coral reefs from sediment runoff. However, given the importance of generating economic activities for coastal livelihoods, the prohibition of development is often not feasible. In light of this, logging codes of practice have been developed to mitigate the impacts of logging on downstream ecosystems. However, no studies have assessed whether managed land-clearing can occur in tandem with coral reef conservation goals. 2.This study quantifies the impacts of current land use and the risk of potential logging activities on downstream coral reef condition and fisheries using a novel suite of linked land-sea models, using Kolombangara Island in the Solomon Islands as a case study. Further, we examine the ability of erosion reduction strategies stipulated in logging codes of practice to reduce these impacts as clearing extent increases. 3. We found that with present-day land use, reductions in live and branching coral cover and increases in turf algae were associated with exposure to sediment runoff from catchments and log ponds. Critically, reductions in fish grazer abundance and biomass were associated with increasing sediment runoff, a functional group that accounts for similar to 25% of subsistence fishing. At low clearing extents, although best management practices minimize the exposure of coral reefs to increased runoff, it would still result in 32% of the reef experiencing an increase in sediment exposure. If clearing extent increased, best management practices would have no impact, with a staggering 89% of coral reef area at risk compared to logging with no management. 4. Synthesis and applications. Assessing trade-offs between coastal development and protection of marine resources is a challenge for decision makers globally. Although development activities requiring clearing can be important for livelihoods, our results demonstrate that new logging in intact forest risks downstream resources important for both food and livelihood security. Importantly, our approach allows for spatially explicit recommendations for where terrestrial management might best complement marine management. Finally, given the critical degradation feedback loops that increased sediment runoff can reinforce on coral reefs, minimizing sediment runoff could play an important role in helping coral reefs recover from climate-related disturbances."	NonUS	Conservation
"The early life history of many marine organisms includes a dispersive planktonic larval phase which allows for the exchange of individuals among subpopulations. Knowledge of the degree of exchange, or connectivity, is critical to understanding the abundance and distribution of marine populations. Here, we applied geochemical tagging to assess estuarine-scale larval connectivity among subpopulations of the commercially and ecologically important eastern oyster, Crassostrea virginica. To generate an atlas of geochemical signatures associated with spawning sites and potential dispersal pathways from spawning sites, we outplanted recently spawned oyster larvae to stationary moorings and surface drifters, respectively. Using the atlases generated from both outplant methods, we predicted natal origin, and thus larval connectivity, for newly settled oysters (spat) during three field trials over two summers (June 2013, June 2014, and August 2014), within three regions (similar to 35 km x 15 km quadrants) of Pamlico Sound, North Carolina, U.S.A. Patterns of larval connectivity varied both between months and annually but were predominately directed south to north following wind patterns. Predicted self-recruitment was variable, as up to 100% of spat in a given region displayed signatures consistent with natal origin within that same region. Predicted connectivity patterns varied significantly based on atlases generated from outplanting on stationary moorings vs. surface drifters. For example, drifter-predicted connectivity followed biophysical larval dispersal models more closely than mooring-predicted connectivity, while mooring-predicted connectivity displayed a higher diversity in larval sources. Both connectivity models highlight the need for resource management strategies such as reserve networks to incorporate designs that account for inherent variability in dispersal pathways."	USA	Ecology
"Interest in carving cavities directly into trees to provide habitat for hollow-dependent wildlife is rapidly growing among researchers, conservation practitioners, community groups, and land managers. Monitoring programs have shown that some of the designs and approaches used to create these structures encourage uptake by fauna. However, evidence for occupancy of bat specific fissure cavities is lacking even though they are already being enthusiastically installed and advocated for by the arboriculture industry. To address this, we conducted a field trial to test the efficacy of carved bat fissure cavities (carved fissures), which had entrances designed to replicate the types of natural cracks and crevices that develop in live tree stems which are commonly used by bats. We found that the entrances to all 174 of the carved fissures we installed across 83 live trees were closed by wound wood growth within 6 years of installation, while some were closed by kino (sap produced by Eucalypteae spp.) flow within as little as 3 months. During surveys conducted while entrances to the carved fissures were still open, we did not record any direct or indirect evidence of bats (or any other vertebrates) using them as roosts. These results highlight the urgent need for systematic research, encompassing a broader range of carved designs, tree species, and environmental contexts to assess whether these types of fissure cavities that are carved into live trees can actually provide habitat for bats in the medium- to long-term."	NonUS	Conservation
"Southeastern Bering Sea is one of the highest surface productivity area in the open ocean due to strong upwelling along the Bering canyon. However, the benthic geochemistry and organisms living in the area have been largely overlooked. In August 2017, surface sediment was sampled from four stations along a transect at depths between 1536 and 103 meters in the Bering canyon with JAMSTEC R/V Mirai. Bottom-water hypoxia was recorded in the two deepest stations (1536 and 536 m). At these stations, the oxygen penetrated down to 5 mm in the sediment due to siltier and much organic-rich sediments in the deeper stations while oxygen penetration was about 20 mm at stations 103 and 197 m deep with coarse-grained sediment stations. Foraminiferal number of species and abundances were higher in the Unimak pass depression station E2 (197 m). Abundance did not change significantly between stations, suggesting that foraminiferal densities are not affected by the hypoxic conditions but are rather controlled by organic matter and nutrients availability. At the upper bathyal and middle bathyal stations, living foraminiferal communities were in general dominated by Uvigerina peregrina, Nonionella pulchella, Elphidium batialis, Globobulimina pacifica, Reophax spp., and Bolivina spathulata while the shallower stations exhibited large densities of Uvigerina peregrina, Cibicidoides wuellerstorfi, Recurvoidela bradyi, Globocassidulina subglobosa, and Portatrochammina pacifica. More than 50% of the individuals have a potential to accumulate nitrate in their cell (from 3 to 648 mmol/L; which is from 100 to 4000 times larger than the highest concentration measured in pore water). Onboard denitrification measurements confirmed that B. spathulata, N. pulchella and G. pacifica could reduce nitrate through denitrification and foraminiferal denitrification could contribute over 6% to benthic nitrate reduction at the southeast Bering Sea. Although the foraminiferal contributions were smaller than those measured at other hypoxic areas, our study quantitatively revealed the significance of eukaryotic microbes on benthic nitrogen cycles at this area."	NonUS	Ecology
"Over the past several decades, the management of historically frequent-fire forests in the western United States has received significant attention due to the linked ecological and social risks posed by the increased occurrence of large, contiguous patches of high-severity fire. As a result, efforts are underway to simultaneously reduce potential fire and fuel hazards and restore characteristics indicative of historical forest structures and ecological processes that enhance the diversity and quality of wildlife habitat across landscapes. Despite widespread agreement on the need for action, there is a perceived tension among scientists concerning silvicultural treatments that modify stands to optimally reduce potential fire behavior (fuel hazard reduction) versus those that aim to emulate historical forest structures and create structurally complex stands (restoration). In this work, we evaluated thinning treatments in the Black Hills National Forest that exemplify the extremes of a treatment continuum that ranges from fuel hazard reduction to restoration. The goal of this work was to understand how the differing three-dimensional stand structures created by these treatment approaches altered potential fire behavior. Our results indicate that restoration treatments created higher levels of vertical and horizontal structural complexity than the fuel hazard reduction treatments but resulted in similar reductions to potential crown fire behavior. There were some trade-offs identified as the restoration treatments created larger openings, which generated faster mean rates of fire spread; however, these increased spread rates did not translate to higher levels of canopy consumption. Overall, our results suggest that treatments can create vertical and horizontal complexity desired for restoration and wildlife habitat management while reducing fire hazard and that they can be used in concert with traditional fuel hazard reduction treatments to reduce landscape scale fire risk. We also provide some suggestions to land managers seeking to design and implement prescriptions that emulate historical structures and enhance forest complexity."	USA	Conservation
"The environmental impacts of mariculture in large scale have attracted worldwide attention. Identifying the sources of sedimentary organic matter plays a key role in elucidating the environmental impacts of the mariculture. In this study, surface sediments of the Sanggou Bay were sampled in October 2014, as well as March, May and August 2015 for grain size, total organic carbon, total nitrogen and stable carbon and nitrogen isotope (delta C-13 and delta N-15) analyses. Results showed that silt was the primary fraction in mariculture areas, and the grain size distribution was closely related with mariculture and hydrodynamic conditions. A significant positive correlation (r = 0.97, p < 0.001) between total organic carbon and total nitrogen indicated that they were homologous. According to the combined analysis of delta C-13 and C/N, the main source of sedimentary organic matter was shellfish deposition, kelp and soil organic matter. Using a three-end-member mixed model, the contribution rates of shellfish biodeposition, soil organic matter and kelp were found to be 48.53% > 37.44% > 14.03%, respectively. These results highlighted the significant impact of shellfish biodeposition on the benthic environments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Increasing marine microplastic pollution has detrimentally impacted organismal physiology and ecosystem functioning. While previous studies document negative effects of microplastics on coral reef animals, the potential responses of organisms such as large benthic foraminifera (LBF) are largely unknown. Here, we document the impact of microplastics on heterotrophic feeding behavior of LBF. Specimens of Amphistegina gibbosa were incubated in three experimental treatments: (1) Artemia sp. nauplii only; (2) pristine microplastic particles only; and (3) choice of nauplii and pristine microplastic. Feeding responses were evaluated 24 h after initiation of treatments. A separate experiment was conducted to compare the effect of conditioned vs. pristine microplastic. Our results indicate that A. gibbosa is able to selectively feed on Artemia, avoiding interactions with pristine microplastic. However, the presence of conditioned microplastic causes similar feeding interaction rates as with Artemia. This suggests that microplastics with longer residence times may have a larger impact on facultative detritivores."	NonUS	Ecology
"Shifting social and ecological contexts for conservation in North America have highlighted that wildlife agencies must engage with broad constituencies to achieve their missions. Responding to limitations in practitioner capacity to find, understand, and plan for engagement with a broader array of stakeholders, we developed a web-based method for stakeholder analysis and used it to identify and describe the activities of 214 organizations, including businesses, nongovernmental organizations, and local, state, and federal entities, that promote wildlife viewing in Virginia. We found that the majority of these stakeholders provide social opportunities and informational resources related to wildlife viewing. We also identified geographic and programmatic gaps that informed strategic planning within the state wildlife agency for meaningful engagement with wildlife viewers as a growing constituency. This project demonstrates the ability of web-based stakeholder analysis to generate inclusive and actionable insights about relatively new and unfamiliar stakeholders for natural resource management."	USA	Technology
"Freshwater fish reproduce annually in environments that provide favourable conditions for spawning and larval survival and growth. Thus, the aims of this study were to use long-term larval density data to evaluate the temporal distribution of the dourado Salminus brasiliensis, its habitat use for larval development and the effects of environmental variables on reproduction. S. brasiliensis larvae were mainly recorded in October and January in the Ivinheima River, and higher densities of larvae, primarily in the preflexion and flexion stages, were captured in the river and backwater biotopes. Water level, dissolved oxygen and temperature were the primary variables affecting the density of larvae, and this species can migrate over 200 km to reproduce in the Ivinheima River and its tributaries. Therefore, S. brasiliensis is reproducing annually, indicating favourable local conditions for migration and spawning, and exhibits differential use of biotopes for reproduction, including rivers and backwaters (spawning) and lagoons (refuge and growth). Therefore, considering that the dourado is a key species for conservation, ensuring its reproductive success means maintaining a balanced ecological structure."	NonUS	Fisheries
"The timing of biological events in plants and animals, such as migration and reproduction, is shifting due to climate change. Anadromous fishes are particularly susceptible to these shifts as they are subject to strong seasonal cycles when transitioning between marine and freshwater habitats to spawn. We used linear models to determine the extent of phenological shifts in adult Alewife Alosa pseudoharengus as they migrated from ocean to freshwater environments during spring to spawn at 12 sites along the northeastern USA. We also evaluated broadscale oceanic and atmospheric drivers that trigger their movements from offshore to inland habitats, including sea surface temperature, North Atlantic Oscillation index, and Gulf Stream index. Run timing metrics of initiation, median (an indicator of peak run timing), end, and duration were found to vary among sites. Although most sites showed negligible shifts towards earlier timing, statistically significant changes were detected in three systems. Overall, winter sea surface temperature, spring and fall transition dates, and annual run size were the strongest predictors of run initiation and median dates, while a combination of within-season and seasonal-lag effects influenced run end and duration timing. Disparate results observed across the 12 spawning runs suggest that regional environmental processes were not consistent drivers of phenology and local environmental and ecological conditions may be more important. Additional years of data to extend time series and monitoring of Alewife timing and movements in nearshore habitats may provide important information about staging behaviors just before adults transition between ocean and freshwater habitats."	USA	ClimateChange
"Background. In the ocean, the variability of environmental conditions found along depth gradients exposes populations to contrasting levels of perturbation, which can be reflected in the overall patterns of species genetic diversity. At shallow sites, resource availability may structure large, persistent and well-connected populations with higher levels of diversity. In contrast, the more extreme conditions, such as thermal stress during heat waves, can lead to population bottlenecks and genetic erosion, inverting the natural expectation. Here we examine how genetic diversity varies along depth for a long-lived, important ecosystem-structuring species, the red gorgonian, Paramuricea clavata. Methods. We used five polymorphic microsatellite markers to infer differences in genetic diversity and differentiation, and to detect bottleneck signs between shallow and deeper populations across the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea. We further explored the potential relationship between depth and environmental gradients (temperature, ocean currents, productivity and slope) on the observed patterns of diversity by means of generalized linear mixed models. Results. An overall pattern of higher genetic diversity was found in the deeper sites of the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea. This pattern was largely explained by bottom temperatures, with a linear pattern of decreasing genetic diversity with increasing thermal stress. Genetic differentiation patterns showed higher gene flow within sites (i.e., shallow vs. deeper populations) than between sites. Recent genetic bottlenecks were found in two populations of shallow depths. Discussion. Our results highlight the role of deep refugial populations safeguarding higher and unique genetic diversity for marine structuring species. Theoretical regression modelling demonstrated how thermal stress alone may reduce population sizes and diversity levels of shallow water populations. In fact, the examination of time series on a daily basis showed the upper water masses repeatedly reaching lethal temperatures for P. clavata. Differentiation patterns showed that the deep richer populations are isolated. Gene flow was also inferred across different depths; however, not in sufficient levels to offset the detrimental effects of surface environmental conditions on genetic diversity. The identification of deep isolated areas with high conservation value for the red gorgonian represents an important step in the face of ongoing and future climate changes."	NonUS	Genetics
"Habitat restoration is a cornerstone of conservation, particularly for habitat-limited species. However, restoration efforts are seldom rigorously monitored at meaningful spatial scales. Poor understanding of how species respond to habitat restoration programs limits conservation efficacy for habitat-restricted species like the Golden-winged Warbler (Vermivora chrysoptera, GWWA). We provide one of the first concerted assessments of a national conservation program aimed at restoring songbird habitat across its breeding range. We studied GWWA response to forest habitat restoration across two broad regions with opposing population trajectories and assessed factors driving species use of restored habitats across multiple spatial scales. From 2015 to 2017, we conducted 1,145 (n = 457 locations) and 519 point counts (n = 215 locations) across the Appalachian Mountains and Great Lakes (respectively) within restored habitats. Warbler abundance within restored habitats across the Great Lakes varied with latitude, longitude, elevation, forest type, and number of growing seasons. In the Appalachian Mountains, occupancy (psi<^>) varied with longitude, elevation, forest type, and number of growing seasons. Detections were restricted to areas within close proximity to population centers (usually <24 km) in the Appalachian Mountains, where GWWAs are rare (psi<^> = 0.22, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.20-0.25), but not in the Great Lakes, where GWWAs remain common (psi<^> = 0.87, 95% CI: 0.84-0.90). Our study suggests that, even when best management practices are carefully implemented, restoration outcomes vary within/across regions and with multiscale habitat attributes. Although assessments of concerted habitat restoration efforts remain uncommon, our study demonstrates the value of monitoring data in the adaptive management process for imperiled species."	USA	Conservation
"Emerging infectious diseases are a pressing threat to global biological diversity. Increased incidence and severity of novel pathogens underscores the need for methodological advances to understand pathogen emergence and spread. Here, we use genetic epidemiology to test, and challenge, key hypotheses about a devastating zoonotic disease impacting amphibians globally. Using an amplicon-based sequencing method and non-invasive samples we retrospectively explore the history of the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) in two emblematic amphibian systems: the Sierra Nevada of California and Central Panama. The hypothesis in both regions is the hypervirulent Global Panzootic Lineage of Bd (BdGPL) was recently introduced and spread rapidly in a wave-like pattern. Our data challenge this hypothesis by demonstrating similar epizootic signatures can have radically different underlying evolutionary histories. In Central Panama, our genetic data confirm a recent and rapid pathogen spread. However, BdGPL in the Sierra Nevada has remarkable spatial structuring, high genetic diversity and a relatively older history inferred from time-dated phylogenies. Thus, this deadly pathogen lineage may have a longer history in some regions than assumed, providing insights into its origin and spread. Overall, our results highlight the importance of integrating observed wildlife die-offs with genetic data to more accurately reconstruct pathogen outbreaks."	USA	Genetics
"Over time, the consumption of pharmaceutical drugs has highly augmented, directly contributing for an increase of the discharges of these substances into sewage water due to excretion, and their direct release to the environment, with or without adequate treatment. Considering that part of the sewage water is dumped into rivers and seas, this is the major source of contamination of the aquatic environment. Paracetamol and acetylsalicylic acid are among the most worldwide consumed pharmaceutical drugs, frequently found in wastewater discharges and consequently in the aquatic environment in considerable amounts, posing ecotoxicity concerns especially towards aquatic non-target species. Thus, it is important to study the ecotoxicological implications that these drugs might pose to organisms from aquatic environments. The objective of this study was to assess the toxic effects of these two compounds on key biochemical features (antioxidant defenses and damage, metabolism, and cholinergic neurotoxicity) of the marine snail species Gibbula umbilicalis after an acute (96 h) exposure, simulating pulses of contamination. In order to understand the effects that those drugs have on this species, the biochemical biomarkers analyzed were the activities of catalase (CAT), glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs), cholinesterases (ChEs), and the levels of lipid peroxidation (TBARS). After acute exposure to paracetamol, catalase activity decreased significantly in organisms exposed to both highest concentrations; no significant alterations were observed for glutathione-S-transferases activity; TBARS concentration decreased significantly in organisms exposed to the intermediate and both highest concentrations, and cholinesterase activity increased significantly in animals exposed to the lowest concentration. However, after acute exposure to acetylsalicylic acid, catalase activity increased significantly; no significant alterations were observed for glutathione-S-transferases activity, and TBARS concentrations and cholinesterase activity increased. This set of data shows that G. umbilicalis is highly responsive to the presence of the tested drugs, and may thus be a promising species to serve as test organism in future marine ecotoxicological testing. The adoption of this species may broaden the offer of highly ecologically representative test organisms to be included in biomonitoring projects of the coastal and marine environment. Furthermore, it is possible to suggest that both drugs may pose significant deleterious effects of pro-oxidative origin to the physiology of the selected species, with potential adverse ecological consequences, even after short periods of exposure. The absence of neurotoxicity showed that despite being able to trigger antioxidant mechanisms, both drugs did not affect neurotransmission."	NonUS	Ecology
"Although the impacts of climate and land-use changes on biodiversity have been widely documented, their joint effects remain poorly understood. We evaluated how nonbreeding waterbird communities adjust to climate warming along a gradient of land-use change. Using midwinter waterbird counts (132 species) at 164 major nonbreeding sites in 22 Mediterranean countries, we assessed the changes in species composition from 1991 to 2010, relative to thermal niche position and breadth, in response to regional and local winter temperature anomalies and conversion of natural habitats. We observed a low-level, nonsignificant community adjustment to the temperature increase where natural habitat conversion occurred. At the sites affected by natural habitat conversion, the relative increase of warm-dwelling species in response to climate warming was 6 times lower and the relative species decline was 3 times higher than in the sites without natural habitat conversion. We found no evidence of community adjustment to climate warming when natural habitat conversion was >5% over 15 years. This strong negative effect suggests an antagonistic interaction between climate warming and habitat change. These results underline the importance of habitat conservation in community adjustment to climate warming."	NonUS	Ecology
"A prominent increase in the moon jellyfish (genus Aurelia) populations has been observed since 1980 in two semi-enclosed temperate seas: the northern Adriatic Sea and the Inland Sea of Japan. Therefore, we reviewed long-term environmental and biotic data from the two Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) sites, along with the increase in the moon jellyfish occurrence to elucidate how these coastal seas shifted to the jellyfish-dominated ecosystems. The principal component analysis of atmospheric data revealed a simultaneous occurrence of similar climatic changes in the early 1980s; thereafter, air temperature increased steadily and precipitation decreased but became more extreme. Accordingly, the average seawater temperature from March to October, a period of polyps' asexual reproduction i.e. budding, increased, potentially leading to an increase in the reproductive rates of local polyp populations. Conspicuous eutrophication occurred due to the rise of anthropogenic activities in both areas from the 1960s onwards. This coincided with an increase of the stock size of forage fishes, such as anchovy and sardine, but not the population size of the jellyfish. However, by the end of the 1980s, when the eutrophication lessened due to the regulations of nutrients loads from the land, the productive fishing grounds of both systems turned into a state that may be described as 'jellyfish-permeated,' as manifested by a drastic decrease in fish landings and a prominent increase in the intensity and frequency of medusa blooms. A steady increase in artificial marine structures that provide substrate for newly settled polyps might further contribute to the enhancement of jellyfish population size. Elevated fishing pressure and/or predation by jellyfish on ichthyoplankton and zooplankton might jeopardize the recruitment of anchovy, so that the anchovy catch has never recovered fully. These semi-enclosed seas may represent many temperate coastal waters with increased anthropogenic stressors, which have degraded the ecosystem from fish-dominated to jellyfish-dominated. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"As domestic energy development activity continues in the western United States, wildlife conservation planning in affected regions is increasingly important. The geologic basins where oil and gas energy exploration is occurring are primarily sagebrush steppe rangelands. Sagebrush steppe habitats may support more than 20 vertebrate species of conservation concern, and for many of these species, information is lacking on the effects of gas energy development. In earlier work, we demonstrated a negative relationship among development density of gas field infrastructure and pygmy rabbits (Brachylagus idahoensis). We now examine the spatial relationship among gas field infrastructure, pygmy rabbits, and their habitat on four major gas fields in southwest Wyoming. Using data collected from 120 plots over three years (2011-2013) and 2012 National Agriculture Imagery Program (NAIP) imagery, we evaluated (1) whether well pads are more likely to be located in areas of pygmy rabbit habitat, (2) whether the presence and abundance of pygmy rabbits are related to distance from infrastructure, and, if so, (3) how much of the total surface area on a gas field is affected. Well pads on three gas fields occurred in higher quality pygmy rabbit habitat than did a set of randomly generated points, and the abundance and probability of pygmy rabbits being present were lower within approximately 0.5-1.5 km of the nearest road and 2 km of well pads and utilities. Buffering a digital layer of roads and well pads on one gas field revealed that nearly 82% of the (4417 km(2)) surface area was within 1 km of infrastructure, and over 95% of the gas field surface area was within 2 km. This need not be the case on future gas fields. Directional and horizontal well drilling technologies now make it possible for gas to be recovered from a greater area per well pad, enabling future gas field developments that require fewer well pads, roads, and pipeline corridors. Such changes would enable increased well pad spacing and provide the opportunity to locate gas field infrastructure in areas of poor quality wildlife habitat, avoid high priority habitat, and conserve a greater amount of on-field wildlife habitat overall."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Widespread shallow coral reef loss has led to calls for more holistic approaches to coral reef management, requiring inclusion of ecosystems interacting with shallow coral reefs in management plans. Yet, almost all current reef management is biased towards shallow reefs, and overlooks that coral reefs extend beyond shallow waters to mesophotic coral ecosystems (MCEs; 30-150 m). We present the first detailed quantitative characterization of MCEs off Cozumel, Mexico, on the northern Mesoamerican Reef in the Mexican Caribbean, and provide insights into their general state. We documented MCE biodiversity, and assessed whether MCEs adjacent to a major town and port, where coastal development has caused shallow reef damage, have similar benthic and fish communities to MCEs within a National Park. Our results show that overall MCE communities are similar regardless of protection, though some taxa-specific differences exist in benthic communities between sites within the MPA and areas outside. Regardless of protection and location, and in contrast to shallow reefs, all observed Cozumel MCEs were continuous reefs with the main structural habitat complexity provided by calcareous macroalgae, sponges, gorgonians and black corals. Hard corals were present on MCEs, although at low abundance. We found that 42.5% of fish species recorded on Cozumel could be found on both shallow reefs and MCEs, including 39.6% of commercially valuable fish species. These results suggest that MCEs could play an important role in supporting fish populations. However, regardless of protection and depth, we found few large-body. fishes (greater than 500 mm), which were nearly absent at all studied sites. Cozumel MCEs contain diverse benthic and fish assemblages, including commercially valuable fisheries species and ecosystem engineers, such as black corals. Because of their inherent biodiversity and identified threats, MCEs should be incorporated into shallow-reef-focused Cozumel National Park management plan."	NonUS	Ecology
"Northern Chilean Patagonia is a mega-estuarine system where oceanic waters mix with freshwater inputs in the coastal fjords, channels and gulfs. The aim of this study was to examine the distribution of blue and sei whales with respect to oceanographic conditions of the study area from the estuarine inner sea to the outer ocean. Ocean gliders were used, mounted with a hydrophone to determine acoustic presence of whales (Southeast Pacific and Antarctic blue whale song calls, and blue whales D-calls; sei whale downsweeps and upsweeps), and a temperature and salinity instrument. Four glider deployments were carried out in April 2018 and April-June 2019 navigating a total of 2817 kilometers during 2110 hours. To examine interannual variation, the average percentage of day with presence of calls was compared between years using the adjusted p-values for one-way ANOVA and descriptive statistics. To examine spatial variation between the hourly acoustic presence of blue whales and sei whales and temperature and salinity conditions, Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) were used. Salinities were higher in 2019 compared to 2018. Southeast Pacific blue whales produced song calls throughout the study area in both years, across estuarine and oceanic areas, but percentage of day with presence was higher in 2019 vs 2018. Percentage of day with presence of D-calls was similar between years, but higher in oceanic areas during both study periods. In contrast, the spatial pattern of sei whale acoustic presence was ambiguous and interannual variability was high, suggesting that sei whales preferred estuarine areas in 2018 and oceanic areas in 2019. We discuss possible explanations for observed acoustic presence in relation to foraging behavior and prey distribution."	NonUS	Ecology
"Connectivity between spawning and nursery grounds influences the colonization, replenishment and resilience of populations of marine organisms. Connectivity rate, measured as the exchange of individuals between spawning and nursery grounds, is therefore a crucial determinant of stock size. However, connectivity of early-life stages is hard to explore due to sampling limitations and insufficient knowledge on potential larval sources. Here we present new insights into pre- and post-settlement dispersal of the common sole (Solea solea L.) at a spatial scale of 5-500 km in the Southern North Sea. Patterns at a scale of < 100 km were considered local, whereas patterns further than 100 km were considered regional. Multi-elemental signatures of the otolith edge of 213 juvenile sole were used to discriminate at 79% of overall accuracy three main nursery grounds in the Southern North Sea, namely UK coast, Belgian coast and Dutch Wadden Sea. Interregional differences in otolith composition (especially for Mg, Mn and Ba) suggest that sole migration following settlement is limited in the Southern North Sea. Elemental signatures of the same fish indicated mixing during larval dispersal. Each nursery ground recruited an important mix of juveniles from three of the four chemically distinct natal sources identified from the larval otolith signatures. However the percentage of correct regional re-assignment varied from 67 to 80% with a maximum in the Wadden Sea. The results contributed to the validation of biophysical models of larval drift. Our findings support decision making for both fisheries management and marine spatial planning at the national and European level."	NonUS	Fisheries
"In addition to evaluating the economic, ecological, and health impacts of major public policy initiatives, impact assessments typically also need to identify and evaluate an action's social and cultural (S/C) impacts. A wide range of S/C metrics have been suggested, and guidelines exist to help ensure their thoughtful and comprehensive development. Nevertheless, many of the S/C concerns identified as part of impact assessments remain vague, are difficult to measure or understand, and are more closely attuned to existing data than to concerns expressed by stakeholders or residents of Indigenous communities. Furthermore, S/C impacts are often deemphasized or, in some cases, outright ignored during project generation and as part of final decisions made by elected officials. Here, we examine the promise of well-designed S/C metrics and contrast it with the reality of how they are commonly deployed, with specific reference to four case studies in North America: municipal planning decisions in Oregon, wildlife decisions in Ohio, renewable energy decisions in Michigan, and pipeline decisions in the western United States and Canada. We argue the importance of moving beyond assessment to decision making, pointing out five reasons why critical S/C impacts are often neglected, and presenting recommendations for the design of clearer, more comprehensive metrics that will contribute to more socially responsive policy choices."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"Climate-driven warming has both social and ecological effects on marine fisheries. While recent changes due to anthropogenic global warming have been documented, similar basin-wide changes have occurred in the past due to natural temperature fluctuations. Here, we document the effects of rapidly changing water temperatures along the United States' east coast using observations from fisheries newspapers during a warming phase (1945-1951) and subsequent cooling phase (1952-1960) of the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation, which we compared to similar recent observations of warming waters (1998-2017). Historical warming and cooling events affected the abundance of species targeted by fishing, the prevalence of novel and invasive species, and physical access to targeted species. Fishing communities viewed historical cooling waters twice as negatively as they did warming waters (72% vs. 35% of observations). Colder waters were associated with a decrease in fishing opportunity due to storminess, while warming waters were associated with the potential for new fisheries. In contrast, recent warming waters were viewed as strongly negative by fishing communities (72% of observations), associated with disease, reductions in abundances of target species, and shifts in distributions across jurisdictional lines. This increasing perception that warming negatively affects local fisheries may be due to an overall reduction of opportunity in fisheries over the past half century, an awareness of the relative severity of warming today, larger changes in American culture, or a combination of these factors. Negative perceptions of recent warming waters' effects on fisheries suggest that fishing communities are currently finding the prospect of climate adaptation difficult."	USA	ClimateChange
"Long-term studies of mountain lions (Puma concolor) in Southern California have documented persistent small population sizes and the lowest genetic variation of any mountain lion population, except for the Federally endangered mountain lion subspecies, the Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi). There is overwhelming molecular evidence supporting inbreeding and low genetic diversity in these Southern California populations but there is a lack of phenotypical evidence of inbreeding depression. The primary goal of this study was to assess male mountain lions, in Southern California, for teratospermia (>60% abnormal sperm production), one of the first signs of inbreeding depression in mountain lions that are associated with decreased reproduction and population decline. From December 2019 to December 2020, we surveyed mountain lions during live captures, after mortality events, and in images collected from camera traps in the following populations: Santa Monica Mountains, Santa Susana Mountains, Santa Ana Mountains, and the Eastern Peninsular Range. Mountain lions were sampled for known physical abnormalities associated with inbreeding depression such as teratospermia, cryptorchidism, and distal tail kinks. For teratospermia, we extracted testes from five males post-mortem to assess sperm morphology. Epididymal sperm evaluations revealed all males were teratospermic. Across all samples, on average, 93% of observed spermatozoa were abnormal. We physically examined 32 mountain lions (males and females) for distal tail kinks, and we observed one individual affected. We examined 15 male mountain lions for cryptorchidism, and we observed one unilaterally cryptorchid male and one male with testes that differed significantly in size, likely reflecting asynchronous migration of the testes during puberty. Further, we identified three other animals in camera-trap images that had distal tail kinks, for a total of four. In conclusion, from December 2019 to December 2020, we identified nine individuals exhibiting physical signs of inbreeding depression. These reproductive and physical signs of inbreeding depression in Southern California mountain lions increase the urgency of conservation efforts in the region. (c) 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	USA	Genetics
"The safest and most efficient method of avoiding costs and impacts associated with biological invasions is to prevent the introduction and establishment of non-native species. In Brazil, two invasive coral species have been causing ecological, economic and social impacts: Tubastraea coccinea and Tubastraea tagusensis. This work presents a protocol to analyze the risk of invasion in Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) in the State of Rio de Janeiro considering the main vector of these species on the Brazilian coast. This protocol takes five risk factors into account: environmental similarity between the donor area and the possible receiving area; available substrate for colonization; proximity to the donor region; proximity and quantity of oil platforms and drill ships that passed by the analyzed MPAs and proximity and quantity of oil platforms and drill ships that anchored near the MPAs. Results must be used by decision-makers for a better management of Marine Protected Areas. The protocol we present can be applied to analyze the relative risk of invasion throughout the Brazilian coast, in order to prioritize areas for early detection and monitoring of the presence of sun corals."	NonUS	Conservation
"Many ungulates are spotted as neonates. This trait is unique to individuals, making their identification feasible from remote cameras. Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) are an endangered subspecies of white-tailed deer endemic to the lower Florida Keys, U.S.A. Habitat loss and hunting were historical drivers of population decline but recent studies report positive associations of key deer with urbanization. Using opposing camera traps at 56 sites throughout the National Key Deer Refuge on Big Pine Key, we used spot patterns to uniquely identify and estimate fawn abundance with N-mixture models. We further compared those inferences to models informed by adult doe counts to see how well tracking adult females alone corresponded with fawn habitat associations. Our results indicated that fawn abundance was negatively associated with increasing elevation and human trails, contrary to models based on adult female observations alone. The lowest elevations where fawns were most abundant were associated with dense wetland plant communities, which were likely selected for thermal cover and warrant further investigation given that those areas are most vulnerable to sea-level rise. Our methods showcase the utility of identifying neonates from camera trap photos and draw attention to possible misaligned inferences when tracking adult females in isolation."	USA	Ecology
"Upper trophic level predators dramatically impacted by fisheries include the large-bodied hammerhead sharks, which have become species of conservation concern worldwide. Implementing spatial management for conservation of hammerhead populations requires knowledge of temporal distribution patterns and habitat use, identification of essential habitat for protection, and quantification of interactions with human activities. There is little such information for the smooth hammerhead shark, Sphyrna zygaena. We used fin-mounted satellite tags to examine the movements and habitat use of juvenile smooth hammerheads, a demographic segment particularly threatened by exploitation. Six sharks were tagged off the US mid-Atlantic and tracked for 49-441 days (mean 187 +/- 136 days). Sharks consistently showed area-restricted movements within a summer core area in waters of the New York Bight and a winter core area off Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, with directed movements between them in autumn. There was high overlap of shark winter core area use and the Mid-Atlantic Shark Area (MASA) - a 7 month per year, bottom-longline fishery closure - indicating that this area closure offers seasonal reduction in fishing pressure for this species. Based on timing of shark movements and the MASA closure, protection for juvenile smooth hammerheads may be increased by beginning the closure period 1 month earlier than currently scheduled. Generalized additive mixed models revealed that area-restricted movements of sharks in their summer and winter core areas coincided with high primary productivity, and elevated sea surface temperature. Consistency in use of summer and winter core areas suggests that the coastal waters of the New York Bight and Cape Hatteras, North Carolina could be considered for Essential Fish Habitat designation for this species. This study reveals the first high resolution movements and habitat use for smooth hammerheads in the western North Atlantic to inform management planning for this population."	USA	Fisheries
"In this study, we elucidated the phylogenetic position of a Pacific species Pronoprymna petrowi, a Caspian species Pronoprymna ventricosa, an Antarctic species of the genus Steringophorus, S. liparidis, and a new species of the same genus, S. occidentalipacificus sp. nov. The new species was found in a bathylagid fish Leuroglossus schmidti from the Sea of Okhotsk. Steringophorus occidentalipacificus sp. nov. is similar to S. congeri, and differs from it in the length of the body and the forebody, the shape of the testes, the sucker-ratio, the size of eggs and the extension of the caeca and the cirrus-sac. The 28S rRNA gene-based analyses supported a sister relationship between Pr. petrowi and Pr. ventricosa, and put the genus Pronoprymna into to the group of faustulids (sensu lato), which is nested within the Gymnophaloidea clade. Based on the results of these analyses, Steringophorus is identified as a paraphyletic taxon within the Fellodistomidae (Gymnophalloidea). Phylogenic reconstructions also support a morphologically identified sister relationship between S. liparidis and S. thulini and demonstrate a close relationship of S. occidentalipacificus sp. nov. with S. blackeri and S. pritchardae. The analysis of the nd1 gene sequences also confirmed the phylogenetic affinity of S. liparidis to S. thulini."	NonUS	Genetics
"Assessing spatiotemporal interactions between species is of fundamental interest to behavioural and community ecology. Observer-independent methods such as camera trapping facilitate the study of interactions, but analyses are hampered by the lack of comparative assessment of available approaches. We present a flexible and expandable framework to simulate and explore spatiotemporal interactions between species from camera trapping data with well-defined properties, and compare methods to detect such interactions in a two-species system with two types of (spatio)temporal interactions: spatiotemporal avoidance (of a site by a species after the presence of another species) and temporal segregation (shifts in daily activity patterns between species), across a range of daily activity patterns and interaction strengths. For spatiotemporal avoidance, we analysed time intervals between species records using linear models, the Mann-Whitney U-test, a permutation test and a test based on randomly generated records. For temporal segregation, we applied a permutation test. Statistical power (the ability to detect an existing effect) for detecting spatiotemporal avoidance between species was strongly affected by interaction strength, highest for linear models and reliable above 50 records per species. Reliably detecting strong temporal segregation required fewer records (10-20 records) but depended heavily on the underlying activity pattern. All tests were valid (uniform distribution of P-values under the null hypothesis) even at low sample sizes above a minimum of 10 records per species. Linear models were the most suitable approach to analyse spatiotemporal avoidance and can easily correct for other sources of variation in interactions. The framework presented here can help to improve survey design in camera trapping and be extended to more complex settings (e.g. with imperfect detection). In addition, it allows researchers to validate the methods used for inference of spatiotemporal interactions from camera trapping data in their specific circumstances."	NonUS	Ecology
"Livestock guard dogs (LGDs; Canis familiaris) have been widely adopted by domestic sheep (Ovis aries) producers because they reduce predation by wild carnivores. LGDs were originally used in the United States to reduce coyote (Canis latrans) depredations, but their efficacy against a suite of large carnivores, including wolves (Canis lupus), brown bears (Ursus arctos), black bears (Ursus americanus), and cougars (Puma concolor), and whether specific breeds perform better than others remains unclear. To assess breed-specific effectiveness at reducing depredations from a suite of livestock predators, we compared survival rates of sheep protected by different breeds of LGDs, including three breeds from Europe (Turkish kangal, Bulgarian karakachan, and Portuguese cao de gado transmontano) and mixed-breed LGDs, whitedog, common in the United States. With the help of participating sheep producers, we collected cause-specific mortality data from domestic sheep in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Wyoming between 2013 and 2016. All three of the novel breeds of LGD tested were associated with overall reductions in sheep depredation relative to whitedogs, ranging from 61% to 95% (P < 0.05). In terms of predator-specific effectiveness, the Turkish kangal was associated with decreases in depredation from cougars (e(beta) = 0.31, 95% CI = 0.10-0.94, P = 0.04), black bears (e(beta) = 0.33, 95% CI = 0.28-0.37, P < 0.01), and coyotes (e(beta) = 0.56, 95% CI = 0.35-0.90, P = 0.02). The Bulgarian karakachan was associated with a decrease in coyote depredations (e(beta) = 0.07, 95% CI = 0.01-0.49, P < 0.01). The Portuguese transmontano was not associated with significant reductions in depredation hazard for any specific predator. Although variations in breed-specific effectiveness were subtle and nuanced, these findings will help livestock producers and wildlife managers make tailored decisions about how best to incorporate different breeds of LGD into sheep grazing regimes. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of The Society for Range Management."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Two species of the brown algal genus Rosenvingea are reported from south-west (SW) Australia, including the widely distributed R. orientalis and the new species R. australis Huisman, G.H. Boo et S.M. Boo, sp. nov. Molecular phylogenies of mitochondrial cox3 and plastid psaA unequivocally align the SW Australian R. orientalis with specimens from Vietnam and the species is morphologically consistent throughout its Australian range. Australian specimens of the new species R. australis join with a specimen from New Caledonia and these resolve as a sister species to R. intricata, with levels of pairwise divergence (4.2-4.9% in cox3 and 3.9-4.0% in psaA) comparable to those between other scytosiphonacean species. The new species can be distinguished morphologically by its branch dimensions and the arrangement and size of plurangia, but further studies including molecular analyses of a full range of species and possible morphological variants are needed."	NonUS	Genetics
"The knowledge of small-scale fisheries (SSFs) is important to develop management policies and mitigate the competition for marine resources. However, spatially explicit information is often unavailable at the regional and subregional scale. We designed and tested a novel participatory approach to map the SSF fishing effort using the Mediterranean sea as a case study. We applied the approach in eight countries (Albania, Croatia, Italy, Libya, Malta, Montenegro, Slovenia and Tunisia) characterized by different cultural, social, political and ecological features. The results provided quantitative and spatially explicit information on fishing operations on a fine-scale resolution, contributing to overcome the pragmatic and budgetary constraints that to date have prevented an accurate assessment of SSFs worldwide. This novel participatory approach is inspired by the principles of governance, adaptive management, cross-national cooperation and spatial planning, thus supporting the ecosystem approach to fisheries and has the potential to provide a useful complement to traditional assessments."	NonUS	Fisheries
"The Chilean fjord region includes many remote and poorly known areas where management plans for the marine living resources and conservation strategies are urgently needed. Few data are available about the spatial distribution of its marine invertebrate fauna, prevalently influenced by complex interactions between biotic and abiotic factors, animal behavior and human activities. Patagonian fjords are a hotspot for finfish aquaculture, elevating Chile to the world's second producer of farmed salmon, after Norway, a condition that emphasizes the necessity to develop strategies for a sustainable aquaculture management. The present study focuses on the emblematic cold-water coral Desmophyllum dianthus, dwelling the Comau Fjord from shallow to deep waters, with the aim to illustrate population structure, demography and adaptation of the species and its potential use for the development of a sustainable conservation and management plan for human activities. The analyses of microsatellite loci of D. dianthus individuals from four sampling localities along horizontal and vertical gradients of Comau Fjord, lead to identify them as a panmictic population. The results also contributed to consider a careful examination of the synchrony between the temporal and spatial variations of environmental factors and the biological cycle of the species as key role player in the inference of autecology of the species. The discussion stresses the importance of molecular analyses as extremely helpful tools for studies focusing on remote areas and non-model organisms, where logistic difficulties and limited scientific knowledge hamper a better management and conservation of marine resources, and in particular the relevance of multidisciplinary approaches to reduce the extensive knowledge gap on the remote fjord ecosystems of Patagonia. This study also highlights the importance of oceanographic information in the entire process of the analyses and interpretation of genetic results."	NonUS	Conservation
"Sharks and rays are threatened by overfishing, yet we have little idea of the conservation status of the hundreds of Data Deficient species. Here, we developed an ecological trait model to predict the categorical conservation status of 22 Northeast Atlantic and 13 Mediterranean Sea Data Deficient sharks and rays. We first developed an explanatory cumulative link mixed model based on regionally data-sufficient species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species (TM) using maximum body size, median depth, and reproductive mode, then predicted the statuses of Data Deficient species. Species exclusive to the Mediterranean were 3.8 times more likely to be threatened than species exclusive to the Northeast Atlantic. Over half of Northeast Atlantic (55%, n = 12 of 22), and two-thirds of Mediterranean (62%, n = 8 of 13) Data Deficient species were predicted to be threatened. When applied to all data-sufficient species, the mean predictive accuracy was 71% and 66% for the Northeast Atlantic and Mediterranean models, respectively. Overall, Northeast Atlantic Data Deficient species are predicted to be 1.4 times more threatened than data-sufficient species proportionally (39% assessed-threatened, n = 38 of 98), whereas threat levels in the Mediterranean Sea are similarly high for both (65% assessed-threatened, n = 39 of 60 data-sufficient). With the growing availability of vertebrate trait databases, trait-based, categorical prediction of conservation status is a cost-effective approach towards incorporating Data Deficient species into unbiased (i) estimates of lineage-wide extinction rates, (ii) protected species lists, and (iii) Red List Indices, thus preventing poorly-known species from reaching extinction unnoticed."	NonUS	Conservation
"The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is the largest infrastructure development in human history. Given its scale of influence and infrastructure undertakings, it is set to bring far-reaching environmental impacts to regions such as Southeast Asia, one of the biologically richest and most diverse regions in the world. Knowing where and what biodiversity BRI will potentially affect is crucial to plan and address its negative impacts. Using BRI transport infrastructure spatial data, we conducted a GIS analysis of the potential BRI impacts in Southeast Asia on terrestrial and marine biodiversity indicators, including protected areas (PAs), Key Biodiversity Areas (KBAs), terrestrial ecoregions, forest cover, threatened species, and fragile ecosystems such as seagrasses, mangroves, and coral reefs. We assessed the potential impacts across four key distance thresholds (1, 5, 25, and 50 km impact zones) on either side of the routes. For the terrestrial routes we assessed impacts for five different types of linear rail and road infrastructure development. Within 1 km of all routes 32 PAs, 40 KBAs and 29 ecoregions are intersected. While, 142 threatened species including 26 critically endangered species are within 5 km from new rail, which are also commonly found in frontier landscapes. In marine ecosystems 20 marine PAs and 16 KBAs are intersected by BRI marine routes. We conclude by discussing ways BRI could minimise its environmental impacts and utilise its political weight to advance conservation efforts in host nations."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Pathogen persistence in host communities is influenced by processes operating at the individual host to landscape-level scale, but isolating the relative contributions of these processes is challenging. We developed theory to partition the influence of host species, habitat patches and landscape connectivity on pathogen persistence within metacommunities of hosts and pathogens. We used this framework to quantify the contributions of host species composition and habitat patch identity on the persistence of an amphibian pathogen across the landscape. By sampling over 11 000 hosts of six amphibian species, we found that a single host species could maintain the pathogen in 91% of observed metacommunities. Moreover, this dominant maintenance species contributed, on average, twice as much to landscape-level pathogen persistence compared to the most influential source patch in a metacommunity. Our analysis demonstrates substantial inequality in how species and patches contribute to pathogen persistence, with important implications for targeted disease management."	USA	Ecology
"Light-driven chloride-pumping rhodopsins actively transport anions, including various halide ions, across cell membranes. Recent studies using time-resolved serial femtosecond crystallography (TR-SFX) have uncovered the structural changes and ion transfer mechanisms in light-driven cation-pumping rhodopsins. However, the mechanism by which the conformational changes pump an anion to achieve unidirectional ion transport, from the extracellular side to the cytoplasmic side, in anion-pumping rhodopsins remains enigmatic. We have collected TR-SFX data of Nonlabens marinus rhodopsin-3 (NM-R3), derived from a marine flavobacterium, at 10-mu s and 1-ms time points after photoexcitation. Our structural analysis reveals the conformational alterations during ion transfer and after ion release. Movements of the retinal chromophore initially displace a conserved tryptophan to the cytoplasmic side of NM-R3, accompanied by a slight shift of the halide ion bound to the retinal. After ion release, the inward movements of helix C and helix G and the lateral displacements of the retinal block access to the extracellular side of NM-R3. Anomalous signal data have also been obtained from NM-R3 crystals containing iodide ions. The anomalous density maps provide insight into the halide binding site for ion transfer in NM-R3."	NonUS	Technology
"Soundscapes have substantially changed since the industrial revolution and in response to biodiversity loss and climate change. Human activities such as shipping, resource exploration and offshore construction alter natural ecosystems through sound, which can impact marine species in complex ways. The study of underwater sound is multi-disciplinary, spanning the fields of acoustics, physics, animal physiology and behaviour to marine ecology and conservation. These different backgrounds have led to the use of various disparate terms, metrics, and summary statistics, which can hamper comparisons between studies. Different types of equipment, analytical pathways, and reporting can lead to different results for the same sound source, with implications for impact assessments. For meaningful comparisons and derivation of appropriate thresholds, mitigation, and management approaches, it is necessary to develop common standards. This paper presents a brief overview of acoustic metrics, analysis approaches and reporting standards used in the context of long-term monitoring of soundscapes."	NonUS	Ecology
"This paper explores the ecosystem services provided by anadromous brown trout (often termed sea trout) populations in Norway. Sea trout is an important species in both freshwater and marine ecosystems and provides important demand-driven ecological provisioning and socio-cultural services. While the sea trout once provided an important provisioning service through a professional fishery and subsistence fishing, fishing for sea trout in the near shore coastal areas and in rivers is today a very popular and accessible recreational activity and generates primarily socio-cultural services. The recreational fishery contributes to local cultural heritage, its folkways and lore, to the development and transfer of local ecological knowledge and fishing experience to the young and to human well-being. As a salmonid species, the sea trout is sensitive to negative environmental conditions in both freshwater and marine coastal areas and is in general decline. A recent decision to expand production of farmed salmon may increase pressure on stocks. Good management of recreational fishing is accordingly important for the species to thrive, but knowledge of what fishers value with respect to fishing sea trout and what management measures they will accept is limited. Researchers sought to capture information about non-extractive direct use value (non-monetary) of the sea trout recreational fishery using questionnaire surveys targeting Norwegian anglers around the country. Results indicate that the most important ecosystem services delivered by recreational sea trout fisheries are social-cultural ecosystem services at the level of individual fishers; fishing sea trout most likely also has important social functions. Fishers are prepared to accept stricter management measures that reduce catches and allow fishing to continue but they oppose paying higher fees."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Andoya on the NW coast of Norway is a key site for understanding the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) in northern Europe. Controversy has arisen concerning the local conditions, especially about the timing and extent of local glacial cover, maximum July temperatures and whether pine and/or spruce could have grown there. We reviewed all existing data and add newly analysed ancient sedimentary DNA (sedaDNA), pollen, macrofossils, geochemistry and stable isotopes from three lake sediment cores from Ovre AErasvatnet. A total of 23 new dates and age-depth modelling suggests the lake has been ice-free since GI2 (<23.4 cal ka BP) and possibly GS3 (<26.7 cal ka BP). Pinus and Picea sedaDNA was found in all three cores but at such low frequencies that it could not be distinguished from background contamination. LGM samples have an exceptionally high organic matter content, with isotopic values indicating that carbon and nitrogen derive from a marine source. Along with finds of bones of the little auk (Alle alle), this indicates that the lake received guano from an adjacent bird colony. SedaDNA, pollen and macrofossil assemblages were dominated by Poaceae, Brassicaceae and Papaver, but scattered occurrence of species currently restricted to the Low Arctic Tundra Zone (July temperature of 8-9 degrees C) such as Apiaceae (sedaDNA, 8-9 degrees C), and Alchemilla alpina (macrofossil, 8-9 degrees C) were also recorded. The review of >14.7 cal ka BP data recorded 94 vascular plant taxa, of which 38% have a northern limit in Shrub Tundra or more southern vegetation zones. This unusual assemblage likely stems from a combination of proximity to ice-free water in summer, geographical isolation linked with stochastic long-distance dispersal events, and the presence of bird-fertilized habitats. The environmental reconstruction based on all records from the area does not preclude local growth of tree species, as the local climate combined with high nutrient input may have led to periodically suitable environmental 'hotspot' conditions. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Large carnivores play key roles in their ecosystems, but their protection is a major challenge in biodiversity conservation due to conflicts with human interests. The snow leopard (Panthera uncia) is the top predator of Asian high-altitude landscapes and faces various threats including wild prey depletion and illegal killings as a consequence of livestock depredation. As the interactions between snow leopards, wild prey, and livestock are still insufficiently understood, we studied the effects of 1) wild prey (blue sheep Pseudois nayaur and Himalayan marmots Marmota himalayana) and domestic prey on snow leopard relative abundance, and of 2) these ecological parameters and intervention applications on livestock depredation by snow leopards. In the Annapurna Conservation Area, Nepal, we monitored wildlife populations and livestock along transects (490.8 km) in 82 grid cells (4 x4 km) in 2019 and 2021 and conducted questionnaire surveys to determine livestock depredation between 2018 and 2021 (n = 479 households). We applied generalized linear models (GLMs) and sample comparison testing to examine the effects of prey densities and other environmental and anthropogenic predictors on snow leopard relative abundance and livestock depredation. Blue sheep density strongly positively affected snow leopard relative abundance, which also increased with terrain ruggedness and decreased with increasing densities of livestock and the human population. The size of livestock holdings shaped depredation events of large livestock (yak, cattle and horse), whereas depredation events of sheep and goats, which accounted for most (68.6%) depredated animals, decreased with increasing human population density and marmot presence. The strong impact of blue sheep on snow leopard relative abundance supports demands for integrating this ungulate into conservation and management plans, including wild prey recovery and translocation. The rather weak evidence for effects of blue sheep on depredation events suggests that conflicts over livestock depredation by snow leopards would neither be inflicted nor solved by increasing wild prey abundance. This demonstrates the need to improve intervention strategies in the Annapurna region, such as predator-proofing corrals and optimizing daytime herding practices. We suggest further exploring the effects of marmots and other secondary prey on livestock depredation rates, and testing the suitability of additional interventions, e.g., dogs and deterrents, as conflict mitigation tools. Our results will support wildlife managers in setting conservation priorities to promote the long-term co-existence of local people and snow leopards."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"The Gulf of California (GC) is a semi-closed sea in the Tropical Eastern Pacific and is recognised as a highly diverse marine ecosystem. Despite this status, this region is still poorly studied in comparison to other marine hotspots. To start filling this gap, we attempt to provide a global overview of reef-fish diversity around the numerous islands of the region. We evaluated species richness, the abundance and biomass, and the functional diversity of the fish assemblages for the major islands of the GC. We first highlight that the southwestern part of the central GC is the hotspot of reef-fishes diversity within the GC, in terms of species richness, functional diversity, and fish abundance. We then found out an important functional divergence between fish assemblages of northern and southern regions. The fish biomass of each region is dominated by different species, characterised by different ecological traits (the opposite of functional convergence). This functional divergence may be explained by an important oceanographic heterogeneity along the latitudinal axis of the GC. The northern part shows larger climate fluctuations while the southern part is more tropical and climatically stable. Such functional divergence is a biodiversity facet to take into account when determining the sites to focus conservation action. In the GC, this criterion allows the importance of some sites to be highlighted to preserve the legacy of the reef-fishes, despite their lower diversity levels. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Recent global improvements to fisheries sustainability have been made through the adoption of more holistic management frameworks, such as the ecosystem approach to fisheries management (EAFM) and ecosystem-based fisheries management (EBFM), and a concurrent transition from a focus on single species or stocks to multispecies and ecosystems. In the US, federal and regional fisheries management encompass multiple layers of comprehensive, ecosystem focused management strategies for living marine resources within its network of large marine ecosystems (LMEs). Here, we provide an overview for the US portion of the Gulf of Mexico large marine ecosystem (GOM-LME) by examining multiple aspects of its fishery management scheme through the lenses of EAFM, EBFM, and the integrated ecosystem assessment (IEA) framework that has been used worldwide to advise, inform, and operationalize ecosystem management. The US-GOM's fishery management and ecosystem community appears to be keeping pace with other US regional efforts. However, more tools like fishery ecosystem plans (FEPs), which are conducive to the effective integration of ecosystem considerations into fishery management processes, are needed to inform and guide the work of regional managers, decision-makers, and stakeholders. Therefore, we propose a structured planning process aimed at advancing the development and implementation of a GOM-FEP, and describe two case studies of EAFM and EBFM applications, respectively, that can help to navigate through our proposed planning process. This work offers strategic guidance and insights to support efforts of regional fishery managers to translate ecosystem management principles, approaches, and objectives into an action oriented FEP in the GOM-LME."	USA	Fisheries
"Community composition is driven by a few key assembly processes: ecological selection, drift and dispersal. Nested parasite communities represent a powerful study system for understanding the relative importance of these processes and their relationship with biological scale. Quantifying beta-diversity across scales and over time additionally offers mechanistic insights into the ecological processes shaping the distributions of parasites and therefore infectious disease. To examine factors driving parasite community composition, we quantified the parasite communities of 959 amphibian hosts representing two species (the Pacific chorus frog, Pseudacris regilla and the California newt, Taricha torosa) sampled over 3 months from 10 ponds in California. Using additive partitioning, we estimated how much of regional parasite richness (gamma-diversity) was composed of within-host parasite richness (alpha-diversity) and turnover (beta-diversity) at three biological scales: across host individuals, across species and across habitat patches (ponds). We also examined how beta-diversity varied across time at each biological scale. Differences among ponds comprised the majority (40%) of regional parasite diversity, followed by differences among host species (23%) and among host individuals (12%). Host species supported parasite communities that were less similar than expected by null models, consistent with ecological selection, although these differences lessened through time, likely due to high dispersal rates of infectious stages. Host individuals within the same population supported more similar parasite communities than expected, suggesting that host heterogeneity did not strongly impact parasite community composition and that dispersal was high at the individual host-level. Despite the small population sizes of within-host parasite communities, drift appeared to play a minimal role in structuring community composition. Dispersal and ecological selection appear to jointly drive parasite community assembly, particularly at larger biological scales. The dispersal ability of aquatic parasites with complex life cycles differs strongly across scales, meaning that parasite communities may predictably converge at small scales where dispersal is high, but may be more stochastic and unpredictable at larger scales. Insights into assembly mechanisms within multi-host, multi-parasite systems provide opportunities for understanding how to mitigate the spread of infectious diseases within human and wildlife hosts."	USA	Ecology
"Estuaries are considered to be among the most biodynamic locations on the globe, where materials are heavily processed by microbes, resulting in high elemental exchange. However, the precise contribution of bacteria in transforming estuarine organic matter has rarely been clarified. In this study, the temporal and spatial distributions of bacterial communities in the surface sediments were investigated at four sites in the Pearl River estuary over a 10-month period. The bacterial communities were affected significantly by salinity and shifted strongly from freshwater sediments (dominated by Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, Chloroflexi and Actinobacteria) to saline sediments (dominated by Deltaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria). The abundance of bacteria was best explained by phototroph abundance in sediments compared to total organic carbon (TOC), carbon stable isotope ratios of TOC (delta C-13-TOC) and phototroph abundance in bottom water. Bacteria presented higher utilization efficiency for sedimental phototroph-derived organic matter in high-salinity (10.6-33.0 parts per thousand) sediments. Proteobacteria, the most abundant taxa, were considered the main consumer for phototroph-derived organic matter. In conclusion, bacterial communities perform the niche specificities and play a major role in carbon cycling by processing phototroph-derived organic matter in different habitats."	NonUS	Ecology
"Calanoid copepods dominate mesozooplankton communities in temperate and Nordic seas. The ability of copepods to remain and feed in productive surface waters depends on their ability to overcome downward flows. In this study, we assessed the swimming performance of subarctic Calanus spp. and tested how the copepods can retain their vertical position in a representative range of downward currents (between 0 and 5.4 cm s(-1)) simulated in a downwelling flume. Mean vertical and horizontal copepod swimming velocities and accelerations, movement periodicity and trajectory complexity were obtained by tracking individual trajectories in the field of view of 2 cameras. Copepod swimming velocity increased with increasing downward flow and matched downward flows up to 2 cm s(-1). Beyond 2 cm s(-1), animals were still able to significantly reduce their sinking rates, but their motions changed. Trajectories became simpler, swimming velocities changed on shorter time scales and instantaneous acceleration increased. These results are consistent with predictions of balancing depth retention against encounter rates with food and predators. Frequency distributions of vertical swimming speeds were mostly unimodal, with entire experimental populations responding in the same way. Coordination of movements and the ability to resist moderate downwelling flows can result in the accumulation of copepods in large surface swarms as observed in the field."	NonUS	Ecology
"Documenting reliable and concrete data makes camera-trapping an appropriate tool for many secretive large mammals. Camera-trapping has been widely used for detecting the large mammal fauna of Turkey. However, systematic surveys and comprehensive assessments are still not sufficient for assessing wildlife populations in the country. In the present study, populations of Eurasian lynx (Lynn lynx) and wildcat Wells silvestris) were monitored by systematic camera-trapping, and their co-existence was investigated with 70 camera-trap stations between 2014-2018 in northern Anatolia. Daily activity patterns and kernel density estimation were used to analyse and compare temporal patterns of target species. High temporal overlap (Delta(4) : 0.81) for Eurasian lynx and wildcat at the same study sites, and no alteration in wildcat activity pattern in the presence of Eurasian lynx, suggest that these two felid species can co-exist in the same habitats using the same period of the day. Domestic cat (Felis catus) was detected at 52.5% of the wildcat-positive stations indicating that there is hybridisation threat for the wildcat population in the region. The study reveals that systematic camera-trapping surveys are an applicable method for monitoring cryptic mammalian carnivores and provide useful insights into the threats on wildlife populations like hybridisation."	NonUS	Technology
"Though a large number of techniques are available for the study of aquatic bacteria, the aim of this study was to establish a technique for analysing free-living and biofilm prokaryotic cells through laboratory assays. In particular, we wished to analyse the efficiency of ultrasound to detach and disrupt biofilm, to obtain an efficient stain treatment for quantifying free-living and biofilm prokaryotes in flow cytometry (FC), and to compare epifluorescence microscopy (EFM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and FC for quantifying free-living and biofilm prokaryotes#. Marine-grade plywood substrates were immersed in natural marine water that was conditioned for 12 days. At 6 and 12 days, water aliquots and substrates were removed to estimate free-living and biofilm prokaryote density. Ultrasound efficiently removed marine biofilm from substrates (up to 94%) without cell damage. FC analysis (unstained) reliably quantified marine plankton and young or mature biofilm prokaryotes compared with other staining (acridine orange, 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole, propidium iodide and green fluorescent nucleic acid), EFM or SEM techniques. FC and SEM achieved similar results, while a high variability was observed in the EFM technique. FC was faster and more precise than SEM because the count is not dependent on the observer."	NonUS	Technology
"River discharge and seasonal, eutrophication-driven hypoxia within coastal waters of the northern Gulf of Mexico create a wide range of environmental conditions for fishes. Environmental conditions are most dynamic on the Louisiana shelf, a region in which oil and gas platforms (hereafter platforms) are abundant and serve as artificial reefs. Platforms provide a unique, vertically oriented substrate for fouling organisms and nekton throughout the water column and often span substantial gradients of salinity, temperature, dissolved oxygen (DO), and water clarity. During the summers of 2013 and 2014, we used paired video and hydrographic samples taken at 150 small platforms sited in nearshore waters (3.7-18.0 m water depth) to document the responses of platform-associated fishes to coastal water quality. Responses of the 26 analyzed fish species included substantial changes in habitat selection coupled with vertical habitat compression. The vertical extent of the water column suitable for fishes was compressed due to avoidance of hypoxic bottom water (DO <50% saturation) and apparent avoidance of eutrophic surface strata with supersaturated oxygen conditions (140.7 +/- 7.0% saturation [95% CI]). Generalized linear mixed models, habitat suitability indices, and factor analysis suggested that fish habitat-selection patterns varied significantly in the presence of hypoxia by up to 10 salinity units, 10 degrees C, 30% DO saturation, 6 m water depth, and 4.5 m Secchi depth. The differences in intraspecific distributions occurring in the presence and absence of hypoxia were often greater than interspecies separations within comparisons. These findings demonstrate an important indirect effect of eutrophication-driven hypoxia on fishes."	USA	Ecology
"Deep-water environments make up 64% of the world's oceans (nearly 202 million km(2)). In the past, the belief that this environment represented one of the most stable and unproductive ecosystems on the planet has been refuted by scientific research and the interest of potential productive sectors evaluating seabed resources. Human activities that threaten the health of deep-sea threats are uncontrolled and unregulated fishing, deep-sea mining, oil spills, marine litter, and climate change. With recent advances in technology, the study of deep-sea coral communities is a growing subject. The deepsea corals are long-lived, slow-growing, and fragile systems, making them especially vulnerable to physical damage. In the last 40 years, Colombia has discovered these communities' existence scarcely distributed in its territorial waters. A representative and irreplaceable sample of deep-sea coral formations triggered in 2013 the establishment of the Corales de Profundidad National Natural Park, a Marine Protected Area (MPA), which holds 40% of the marine biodiversity known in the Colombian Caribbean continental shelf-slope break. The MPA's essential ecological value is the Madracis myriaster species' presence as a primary habitat-forming organism, a unique habitat for the Caribbean and the world. Here we describe the MPA creation process in three phases. Firstly, in the provisioning phase, three main threats from human activities are identified. Secondly, in the preparation phase, the area's conservation objectives and management category are defined, and the negotiation process with the fishing, communications, and oil and gas economic sectors is described. Lastly, in the designation phase, three MPA scenario proposals were evaluated, assessing the minimum distance, the possible effects of activities in the area as the main criteria for the buffer zone and the management of possible future impacts. As a result, the most extended boundary was adopted, guaranteeing these communities' conservation despite the limited information to carry out a complete planning process. The MPA designation is considered the first experience of deep communities in the Southern Caribbean and an example that it is possible to have effective conservation agreements with economic sectors."	NonUS	Conservation
"A wide range of seagrass biometrics as well as environmental variables are currently used for classification of the ecological status of coastal water bodies in accordance with the Water Framework Directive (WFD). The use of extensive sets of indicators provides a satisfactory assessment of environmental quality statuses, but also requires substantial amounts of additional laboratory efforts and costs. In this study, typical population-level and individual biometrics of the dwarf eelgrass Zostera noltei (Hornem.) (shoot density, total biomass, above-and belowground biomass, above-to belowground biomass ratio, leaf length and leaf area) were tested and used in the adaptation and validation of a simplified, easy to apply and cost-effective pollution index (ZnoPI) for evaluation of the ecological and environmental quality status of Black Sea coastal waters in accordance with the WFD and the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) criteria. Based on the metrics tested, reference conditions were established and ecological quality ratios (EQR) of the studied areas were calculated. The index validation was based on biological sampling and environmental monitoring of Z. noltei meadows in a variety of ecological conditions along the Southern Black Sea coast of Bulgaria. The environmental condition of the study sites was evaluated with an Integrated Pollution Status (I.P.S.), which combined water column variables (nutrients, chlorophyll-a, suspended particulate matter, transparency) as well as total organic matter content and concentrations of heavy metals in sediments in a single metric. Significant correlation between ZnoPI EQR values and I.P.S. was found (r = 0.917 p < 0.0001), which validated the index for Bulgarian Black Sea coastal waters, and possibly other areas with similar environmental conditions. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Ecology
"Linear patches of native forest are commonly found in south-eastern Brazil, where they also serve as boundaries between rural properties. These linear patches can be found connecting forest fragments (possibly acting as vegetation corridors) or isolated and are generally surrounded by agricultural areas (mainly cattle pastures and coffee plantations). In this paper, we assessed the influence of connectivity and type of surrounding agricultural areas on small mammal species in a fragmented landscape. We captured and monitored seven species from which all but one (Rhipidomys itoan) were found in all types of habitat studied (forest fragments, linear patches, and agricultural areas). Community structure was highly similar between forest fragments and linear patches, but differed in agricultural areas. Necromys lasiurus and Calomys cerqueirai were more abundant in agricultural areas and rarely captured elsewhere. Akodon montensis was the most common species and preferred forest fragments. Gracilinanus microtarsus was more abundant in linear patches. Cerradomys subflavus, Oligoryzomys nigripes and R. itoan were equally abundant in forest fragments and linear patches. Small mammal community structure was similar in connected and isolated linear patches. Also, linear patches differed from both types of surrounding agricultural areas - cattle pasture and coffee plantation. Based on the results we concluded that even narrow and isolated linear patches may play an important role for wildlife conservation in a severely fragmented landscape. Therefore, we suggest that conservation efforts should focus on increasing the amount of native vegetation and encourage landowners to maintain the linear forest patches. (C) 2018 Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Saugetierkunde. Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved."	NonUS	Conservation
"An Australian Raspy Cricket, Chauliogryllacris acaropenates Rentz, Su, Bethoux, sp. nov. is described. This cricket was found to harbor a number of mite species of interest to acarologists and the name was needed for them to proceed with their studies. A key to the males of the described species of Chauliogryllacris is provided along with numerous illustrations of the described cricket. Observations and comments on its biology, behavior and ecology are presented."	NonUS	Ecology
"Background: Malaria is a disease caused by hemoparasites of the Plasmodium genus. Non-human primates (NHP) are hosts of Plasmodium sp. around the world. Several studies have demonstrated that Plasmodium sp. emerged from Africa. However, little information is currently available about Plasmodium falciparum in the neotropical NHP and even less in Ecuador. Indeed, the objective of our study was to identify by molecular phylogenetic analyses the Plasmodium species associated with NHP from the Western Amazon region of Ecuador, and to design a molecular taxonomy protocol to use in the NHP disease ecology. Methods: We extracted DNA from faecal samples (n = 26) from nine species of captive (n = 19) and free-ranging (n = 7) NHP, collected from 2011 to 2019 in the Western Amazon region of Ecuador. Results: Using a pan-Plasmodium PCR, we obtained one positive sample from an adult female Leontocebus lagonotus. A maximum likelihood phylogenetic analysis showed that this sequence unequivocally clustered with Plasmodium falciparum. Conclusions: The identification of Plasmodium sp. in NHP of the Ecuadorian Amazon would be essential to identify their role as potential zoonotic reservoirs, and it is also important to identify their origin in wildlife and their transmission in captive NHP."	NonUS	Genetics
"This study's aim is to elucidate what tourists' encounter with feral animals entail-an infrequently studied concept in the literature-by building on the discussion of authenticity in wildlife tourism experiences using the case of feral rabbits. Netnography was used to examine tourists' comments and photos in 386 TripAdvisor reviews written in Japanese and English about Okunoshima Island in Hiroshima, Japan. The findings indicate that the space where tourist and feral rabbit interactions occur can be compared to a 'natural petting zoo' and a theme park, where tourists' seek entertainment rather than authentic experiences. Even uncontrolled, chaotic wildness-the characteristic of feral animals-was consumed by tourists who found it entertaining. Unmediated interactions allowed tourists to be fully in charge of interactions with the rabbits especially through feeding. Their encounters with the rabbits especially left tourists in Japanese reviews with feeling of healing. Widely adopted conservation-based wildlife tourism frameworks are inadequate for managing tourist-feral rabbit encounters because if they were adapted, the rabbits would be eradicated. Therefore, a policy for Okunoshima Island that balances the needs of tourists, rabbits, and the surrounding environment is needed."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"As Arctic ecosystems become increasingly vulnerable to climate- and human-induced stressors, effective marine management will rely on the characterization of fish movements. Over a six-year study period, the movements of 65 Greenland sharks (Somniosus microcephalus) (41 males, 24 females; mean L-T = 2.48 +/- 0.50 m) were monitored using static acoustic telemetry. Shark presence in a typical deep-water fjord was restricted to the summer open-water period. Residency duration varied based on age class (juvenile, n = 17; subadult, n = 48); however, activity space size and extent were comparable. A quarter of tagged sharks (n = 16) returned to the system in subsequent years after tagging, with individuals redetected for a maximum of 4 years. Movements between coastal and offshore waters occurred primarily via a deep-water channel with sharks detected along the channel banks. These multiyear data depict how a potentially vulnerable Arctic predator utilizes a deep-water fjord in the context of the regional development of community inshore and offshore commercial fisheries."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Knowledge of relationships in wild populations is critical for better understanding mating systems and inbreeding scenarios to inform conservation strategies for endangered species. To delineate pedigrees in wild populations, study genetic connectivity, study genotype-phenotype associations, trace individuals, or track wildlife trade, many identified individuals need to be genotyped at thousands of loci, mostly from noninvasive samples. This requires us to (a) identify the most common noninvasive sample available from identified individuals, (b) assess the ability to acquire genome-wide data from such samples, and (c) evaluate the quality of such genome-wide data, and its ability to reconstruct relationships between animals within a population. We followed identified individuals from a wild endangered tiger population and found that shed hair samples were the most common compared to scat samples, opportunistically found carcasses, and opportunistic invasive samples. We extracted DNA from these samples, prepared whole genome sequencing libraries, and sequenced genomes from these. Whole genome sequencing methods resulted in between 25%-98% of the genome sequenced for five such samples. Exploratory population genetic analyses revealed that these data were free of holistic biases and could recover expected population structure and relatedness. Mitochondrial genomes recovered matrilineages in accordance with long-term monitoring data. Even with just five samples, we were able to uncover the matrilineage for three individuals with unknown ancestry. In summary, we demonstrated that noninvasive shed hair samples yield adequate quality and quantity of DNA in conjunction with sensitive library preparation methods, and provide reliable data from hundreds of thousands of SNPs across the genome. This makes shed hair an ideal noninvasive resource for studying individual-based genetics of elusive endangered species in the wild."	NonUS	Genetics
"The Yucatan tidal wetland (YTW), located in the southeastern portion of the Gulf of Mexico is an extensive, heterogeneous, seasonally flooded area with a high diversity and richness, but urbanization is changing the ecosystem and, therefore, could change the functions it provides. Two important functions of the wetlands have been highlighted, its function as a nursery and the transfer of biomass to other ecosystems. To corroborate those functions, the percentage of juveniles and the links of the fish assemblage with other ecosystems need to be registered. In the present study, the fish assemblage of the YTW was analyzed to determine: (1) zonation; (2) assemblage and trophic structure; (3) environmental constraints on the fish assemblage, and (4) usage and connectivity of the ecosystem. Fifty-one stations were analyzed and segregated into three zones: Z1, the coastline, characterized by oxygenated and high salinity waters, and the highest fish richness and trophic diversity. Its fish assemblage is constituted by species associated with marine (31%), brackish (30%), reef (22%), and freshwater (17%) ecosystems, with 50% of the population registered as juveniles and 33% in the first-maturity size. Z2, the brackish environment, presents average fish richness and trophic diversity and physicochemical variation, its fish assemblage is constituted by species associated to freshwater (44%), brackish (34%), marine (15%), and reef (7%) ecosystems, with 43% of the population registered in first-maturity size and 33% in juveniles sizes. Z3, the freshwater environment, characterized by low oxygen levels and salinity, low fish richness and trophic diversity and the highest biomass. Its fish assemblage is constituted by species associated with freshwater (65%), brackish (34.5%), and marine (0.5%) ecosystems, with 80% of the population registered in adult sizes. The nursery, refuge, and feeding ground functions of the YTW and the transfer of biomass, via individuals, to other ecosystems were corroborated. It can be concluded that the YTW presents an intricate trophic and functional relationship among zones and ecosystems surrounding it; thus, the detrimental impacts in the YTW will produce negative effects in the near aquatic ecosystems. Therefore, it is of priority importance to ensure that the urban development plans of the YTW ensure the connection between zones, the clean input of freshwater, and the natural flow between the sea and the YTW."	NonUS	Ecology
"Globally, forest-savanna mosaic landscapes are of significant conservation importance but have been widely impacted by human land-use. We studied how restoration, through cessation of long-term cattle grazing impacts (i) forest regeneration; (ii) forest understory structure and composition; and (iii) populations and diversity of large mammals and nocturnal birds, within naturally patchy gallery forests in the Beni Savannas of Bolivia. Comparing grazed and restored sites, we assessed the abundance and composition of tree functional types at different life stages (seedlings, saplings and adults), with focus on the region's key palm species Attalea princeps (motacu). Additionally, we surveyed habitat structure and composition in the shrub and ground-layer, and monitored occurrence and encounter rates of large mammals and nocturnal birds along dusk and evening transects. We found evidence of lower recruitment of motacu palms on the grazed site and lower potential for natural motacu regeneration. Principal Components Analysis revealed forests on grazed sites had simpler, more open shrub-layers and altered ground-layer structure and composition including increased bare ground. Mammal species richness was greater on the restored site, and there were more declining, globally threatened and site-unique species. Species richness was similar for nocturnal birds within forests on both the grazed and restored site, but nearly all species tended to be encountered more frequently on the restored site. Our results suggest cattle negatively impact forest regeneration and alter the structure and composition of the shrub and ground layer with potential consequences for the diversity and abundance of wildlife. Our study represents one of only a handful completed in the Beni region of Bolivia to date. The Beni is currently under pressure from widespread, largely unregulated cattle ranching. Our results thus provide vital evidence to support development of restoration and conservation policy, and its integration with rangeland management in this threatened and critically understudied region."	USA	Conservation
"Most of accumulation curves tend to underestimate species richness, as they do not consider spatial heterogeneity in species distribution, or are structured to provide lower bound estimates and limited extrapolations. The total-species (T-S) curve allows extrapolations over large areas while taking into account spatial heterogeneity, making this estimator more prone to attempt upper bound estimates of regional species richness. However, the T-S curve may overestimate species richness due to (1) the mismatch among the spatial units used in the accumulation model and the actual units of variation in beta-diversity across the region, (2) small-scale patchiness, and/or (3) patterns of rarity of species. We propose a new framework allowing the T-S curve to limit overestimation and give an application to a large dataset of marine mollusks spanning over 11 km(2) of subtidal bottom (W Mediterranean). As accumulation patterns are closely related across the taxonomic hierarchy up to family level, improvements of the T-S curve leading to more realistic estimates of family richness, that is, not exceeding the maximum number of known families potentially present in the area, can be considered as conducive to more realistic estimates of species richness. Results on real data showed that improvements of the T-S curve to accounts for true variations in beta-diversity within the sampled areas, small-scale patchiness, and rarity of families led to the most plausible richness when all aspects were considered in the model. Data on simulated communities indicated that in the presence of high heterogeneity, and when the proportion of rare species was not excessive (>2/3), the procedure led to almost unbiased estimates. Our findings highlighted the central role of variations in beta-diversity within the region when attempting to estimate species richness, providing a general framework exploiting the properties of the T-S curve and known family richness to estimate plausible upper bounds in gamma-diversity."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Over the last few years, wild ungulate populations have increased their number and distribution range in developed countries all over the world, causing conflicts between animals and humans, and situations of environmental concern. In many cases, those populations are managed inefficiently or management does not even exist due to the absence of useful tools. This work presents the second part of a management matrix model for wild ungulate populations under density dependent conditions, between the new term Optimum Capacity and the known Carrying Capacity, the model can be easily adapted to every population and species by knowing some basic biological parameters. In this case, it has been adapted to a real red deer (Cervus elaphus) population in an undesired high density and through the model the management actions required have been known to improve the situation. As a result, it is possible to simulate a real population growth in order to foresee its evolution and to test different management practices to achieve the management target. The model gives every necessary parameter to guarantee the stability and the sustainability twice a year, after the reproduction season and after the extracting season. Also, as a novelty, the differences between the left and the right product of the extraction matrix and the biological matrix have been proven and explained in a real situation."	NonUS	Ecology
"The rate of human-induced environmental change continues to accelerate, stimulating the need for rapid and science-based decision making. The recent availability of cyberinfrastructure, open-source data and novel techniques has increased opportunities to use ecological forecasts to predict environmental change. But to effectively inform environmental decision making, forecasts should not only be reliable, but should also be designed to address the needs of decision makers with their assumptions, uncertainties, and results clearly communicated. To help researchers better integrate forecasting into decision making, we outline ten practical guidelines to help navigate the interdisciplinary and collaborative nature of forecasting in social-ecological systems. Some guidelines focus on improving forecasting skills, including how to build better models, account for uncertainties and use technologies to improve their utility, while others are developed to facilitate the integration of forecasts with decision making, including how to form effective partnerships and how to design forecasts relevant to the specific decision being addressed. We hope these guidelines help researchers make forecasts more accurate, precise, transparent, and most pressingly, useful for informing environmental decisions."	NonUS	Technology
"1. An aggregation of sandbar sharks Carcharhinus plumbeus occurs every summer around the remote uninhabited islet of Lampione (Pelagie Islands Marine Protected Area, south-western Mediterranean Sea), attracting an increasing number of tourists for a shark watching experience. 2. Despite the ecological and socio-economic importance of this rare occurrence in Mediterranean waters, there is a lack of scientific data and lack of information as to the potential impact of tourist activities on the presence and behaviour of this shark species. 3. Using baited underwater videos, this study provides the first assessment of this shark aggregation, as well as a preliminary evaluation of the potential effects that boating and diving activities may have on sandbar sharks during two different periods within the tourism season (July and September 2019). 4. Overall, 241 sandbar shark sightings (with up to five individuals together) were recorded in July, whereas there were only six sightings in September. The average MaxN was 1.18 hr(-1) (+/- 0.21 hr(-1) SE) and 0.22 hr(-1) (+/- 0.10 hr(-1) SE) individuals in July and September respectively. Higher frequentation levels of divers and boats significantly reduced the number of shark sightings at the aggregation site. 5. This study emphasizes the need for further investigations on Mediterranean shark aggregations and the implementation of specific conservation measures, such as an increase of protection level in Lampione and better enforcement, aside from strategies that promote sustainable tourism, including restrictions on the number of boats and divers' visits per day. In the meantime, a precautionary approach aimed at regulating the interactions between tourists and sharks should be implemented through the application of a self-regulatory code of conduct for divers when sharks aggregate around the island."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Woody encroachment is a global driver of grassland loss and management to counteract encroachment represents one of the most expensive conservation practices implemented in grasslands. Yet, outcomes of these practices are often unknown at large scales and this constrains practitioner's ability to advance conservation. Here, we use new monitoring data to evaluate outcomes of grassland conservation on woody encroachment for Nebraska's State Wildlife Action Plan, a statewide effort that targets management in Biologically Unique Landscapes (BULs) to conserve the state's natural communities. We tracked woody cover trajectories for BULs and compared BUL trajectories with those in non-priority landscapes (non-BULs) to evaluate statewide and BUL-scale conservation outcomes more than a decade after BUL establishment. Statewide, woody cover increased by 256,653 ha (2.3%) from 2000-2017. Most BULs (71%) experienced unsustainable trends of grassland loss to woody encroachment; however, management appeared to significantly reduce BUL encroachment rates compared to non-BULs. Most BULs with early signs of encroachment lacked control strategies, while only one BUL with moderate levels of encroachment (Loess Canyons) showed evidence of a management-driven stabilization of encroachment. These results identify strategic opportunities for proactive management in grassland conservation and demonstrate how new monitoring technology can support large-scale adaptive management pursuits."	USA	Conservation
"The karstic Krka River is characterized by having lower dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations (similar to 30 mu M) than coastal seawater (similar to 60 mu M). This peculiarity, together with the pristine nature of this area, makes the Krka River estuary a natural laboratory where it is possible to discriminate among the different dissolved organic matter (DOM) sources (riverine, marine and produced in-situ) and to study the main processes of DOM production and removal. The hypothesis behind this work is that in winter, due to the high discharge of the river, most of the DOM has a terrestrial signature, whereas in summer autochthonous DOM compose the main fraction of the DOM pool because of the reduced discharge, the high temperature and primary production. Our data shows that DOM in the river mainly consists of terrestrial molecules, as suggested by the high chromophoric content and low spectral slope (S275-295) values, as well by the predominance of humic-like substances. DOM in the seawater features the concentration and optical properties of the typical marine DOM from open sea waters. In summer, low riverine discharge and high temperature promote the intense biological activity, with an increase in DOC concentrations of up to 148 mu M, resulting in a non-conservative behavior of DOM in the estuary. The high stratification combined with a decoupling between production and removal processes can explain the observed DOM accumulation. In the bottom layer DOM was released and quickly removed when oxygen was available, whereas in hypoxic waters the production of DOC, chromophoric DOM (CDOM) and fluorescent DOM (FDOM) was linearly related to oxygen consumption. Our work highlights the need of further studies combining chemical and biological information in order to gain new insights into the main processes responsible for DOM dynamics in this system."	NonUS	Ecology
"We investigated the respective identities of Rhacophorus jarujini and R. orlovi in Thailand based on specimens collected from several localities in north-eastern Thailand and specimens from museums, namely American Museum of Natural History, Field Museum of Natural History, North Carolina State Museum of Natural Science, Khon Kaen University Vertebrates Collection and Thailand Natural History Museum. Our results confirm that the specimens from Amnat Charoen and Ubon Ratchathani provinces, Thailand, which were previously identified as R. orlovi, are in fact R. jarujini. We therefore propose removing R. orlovi from the list of amphibian fauna of Thailand and that former records of R. orlovi should be replaced by R. jarujini. Furthermore, we report a new record of R. jarujini based on specimens collected from Phu Phan National Park (Sakon Nakhon province), the northernmost record of the species in Thailand."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Subtidal observations along the Cape Horn Archipelago, Chile (CHA) in February 2017 revealed an unusually large aggregation (or pod) of juvenile false king crabs, Paralomis granulosa (Hombron and Jacquinot, 1846), in association with kelp forests (Macrocystis pyrifera and Lessonia spp.). This is the first study to report a dense aggregation of juveniles of this crab, which was observed at Wollaston Island (WI) (similar to 10 m). Paralomis granulosa was present on half the transects at WI (N=10), with a density of 3.1 +/- 9.9 ind. m(-2). Photographs from the podding event showed densities of P. granulosa ranging from 63 to 367 ind. plant (190 +/- 133 ind. plant(-1). Juveniles (32.8 +/- 7.3 mm carapace length) were recorded on kelp fronds, holdfasts, kelp stipes, and adjacent rocky bottom of this protected coast. This podding behavior resembles that of other juvenile king crabs in terms of homogeneity in size structure and maybe a predator avoidance mechanism. These observations highlight three aspects of this kelp-animal relationship: (i) identification of a previously unknown ecosystem service provided by sub-Antarctic kelp forests to the associated benthic fauna; (ii) the ecological value of kelp as a bioengineering species; and (iii) pods being an important attribute for population assessments. Due to the importance of the CHA in the life cycle for this and other species, we suggest the archipelago be incorporated within the recently established Diego Ramirez Island-Drake Passage Marine Park."	NonUS	Ecology
"Indonesian coral reefs are under pressure from illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, the use of destructive fishing practices, land-based pollution, coastal development and climate change. Marine protected areas (MPAs) are necessary to allow habitat recovery and fish stock replenishment. Through the United States Agency for International Development Sustainable Ecosystems Advanced Project (2016-2021), Indonesia worked to improve fisheries productivity and sustainable livelihoods within the three provinces of Maluku, North Maluku and West Papua, where 13 new coral reef MPAs were designed for multiple use, with a zoning system to support biodiversity conservation and sustainable fisheries. At the time of writing in mid-2021, regulations to prohibit fishing within the no-take areas (NTAs) were not yet implemented. This paper presents baseline and trends in percent coral cover and reef fish density and biomass in the MPAs. In 2020, overall coral cover had increased from 42% to 45% across all MPAs. The average target fish biomass across all NTAs had declined from 1709 ( +/- 176 SE) kg per hectare in 2017 to 884 ( +/- 76 SE) kg per hectare in 2020, representing a significant decline of about 48%. Large and significant declines in many target fish families across multiple MPAs are reflective of unsustainable levels of exploitation. It is evident that management plans need to be implemented with adequate enforcement and stakeholder engagement to stem the decline of target species and to secure livelihoods for local fishing communities."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Climate-induced shifts in plankton blooms may alter fish recruitment by affecting the fatty acid composition of early-life diets and corresponding performance. Early-life nutrition may immediately affect survival but may also have a lingering influence on size and growth via experiential legacies. We explored the short- and longer-term performance consequences of different concentrations of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) for juvenile Walleye (Sander vitreus, Mitchill 1818). For the first 10days of feeding, juveniles were provided Artemia enriched with: oleic acid (low PUFA), high docosahexaenoic acid and high eicosapentaenoic acid (high PUFA), or high PUFA and a form of vitamin E (high PUFA+E). After 10days, all fish were fed a high-quality diet and reared for an additional 27days. Juveniles fed either high PUFA diet were 1.15-fold larger (PUFA mean +/- SD = 20.0 +/- 3.3 mg; PUFA+E = 19.8 +/- 3.3 mg) than those fed the low PUFA (17.3 +/- 2.8 mg) diet after 10days of feeding. After 27days, juveniles initially fed the high PUFA diet were still 1.10- to 1.20-fold larger (PUFA = 407.0 +/- 61.6 mg; PUFA+E = 422.7 +/- 58.7 mg) than those initially fed the low PUFA diet (356.5.0+39.5 mg). Our findings demonstrate that fatty acid composition of juvenile Walleye diets has immediate and lingering size effects. As changes in climate continue to alter lower trophic levels, fish management and conservation may need to consider short- and long-term effects of temporal or spatial differences in early-life diet quality."	USA	Fisheries
"For many avian species, spatial migration patterns remain largely undescribed, especially across hemispheric extents. Recent advancements in tracking technologies and high-resolution species distribution models (i.e., eBird Status and Trends products) provide new insights into migratory bird movements and offer a promising opportunity for integrating independent data sources to describe avian migration. Here, we present a three-stage modeling framework for estimating spatial patterns of avian migration. First, we integrate tracking and band re-encounter data to quantify migratory connectivity, defined as the relative proportions of individuals migrating between breeding and nonbreeding regions. Next, we use estimated connectivity proportions along with eBird occurrence probabilities to produce probabilistic least-cost path (LCP) indices. In a final step, we use generalized additive mixed models (GAMMs) both to evaluate the ability of LCP indices to accurately predict (i.e., as a covariate) observed locations derived from tracking and band re-encounter data sets versus pseudo-absence locations during migratory periods and to create a fully integrated (i.e., eBird occurrence, LCP, and tracking/band re-encounter data) spatial prediction index for mapping species-specific seasonal migrations. To illustrate this approach, we apply this framework to describe seasonal migrations of 12 bird species across the Western Hemisphere during pre- and postbreeding migratory periods (i.e., spring and fall, respectively). We found that including LCP indices with eBird occurrence in GAMMs generally improved the ability to accurately predict observed migratory locations compared to models with eBird occurrence alone. Using three performance metrics, the eBird + LCP model demonstrated equivalent or superior fit relative to the eBird-only model for 22 of 24 species-season GAMMs. In particular, the integrated index filled in spatial gaps for species with over-water movements and those that migrated over land where there were few eBird sightings and, thus, low predictive ability of eBird occurrence probabilities (e.g., Amazonian rainforest in South America). This methodology of combining individual-based seasonal movement data with temporally dynamic species distribution models provides a comprehensive approach to integrating multiple data types to describe broad-scale spatial patterns of animal movement. Further development and customization of this approach will continue to advance knowledge about the full annual cycle and conservation of migratory birds."	NonUS	Technology
"Conservation efforts often lead to a small proportion of species receiving a disproportionate amount of attention. This bias in funding may help or hinder broader goals of biodiversity conservation depending on the surrogacy value of the well-funded species. Surrogate species are selected to represent other taxa in a shared environment when it would be costly or impractical to obtain information on individual taxa. We compared the surrogacy value of common groups of taxa implicated in conservation-game species, carnivores, non-game species, and other species. Using a publicly available data set of species-habitat associations, we compared the surrogacy value for 1012 species and 64 habitat types in British Columbia, Canada. We used a conditional entropy metric to quantify pairwise associations between species via their occurrence in different habitat types. Our analysis reveals that game and non-game species surrogacy groups do not significantly differ in either the frequency of captured pairwise associations or their coverage of species. These results suggest that funding game species conservation is likely conferring some benefits to non-game species, but optimal habitat-based conservation outcomes will come from a combination of taxa. This analysis provides an important step in influencing management decisions for the preservation of biodiversity in British Columbia."	NonUS	Conservation
"Tropical coral reef ecosystems in the Pacific region are degrading rapidly as ocean temperatures rise and local anthropogenic stressors increase. In this context of rapid change, effective site-based management of coral reef fisheries necessitates flexible environmental governance that is closely attuned to the needs of multiple stakeholders who depend on the fishery for income, food, and cultural identity. As such, many practitioners and scholars call for adaptive co-management of coral reef fisheries where local resource users play a primary role in environmental governance with the support of flexible institutions that operate across organizational scales. This article describes the history and evaluates the current status of marine governance in Moorea, French Polynesia. Established in 2004, the management framework is under revision because it has failed to meet its ecological objectives and has generated discontent among many stakeholders. Drawing on household surveys, interviews, and archival information, the challenges to as well as the factors that may enable a more successful transition of the current governance arrangement towards co-management are detailed. It is argued that recent social mobilization, subsistence and cultural links to the fishery, the presence of geographically and socially relevant traditional governance boundaries, and the implementation of co-management in other parts of French Polynesia are positive factors. However, lack of trust between stakeholders, social heterogeneity, disruption of traditional cultural institutions and practices, minimal institutional support, and an uncertain legal framework suggest that there are significant headwinds for maneuvering towards successful co-management in Moorea."	USA	Fisheries
"Current international commitments on ocean protection targets include protecting 10% of the ocean through marine protected areas (MPAs) until 2020, while also complying with efficiency and equity requirements. This has led to a race to designate large MPAs, but despite the valid marine conservation efforts, conferring adequate protection is still at risk. While fully protected areas are considered the most efficient tools to effectively protect the integrity of ecosystems, most existing or proposed MPAs are far from being fully or strongly protected. Portugal, with the 20th largest EEZ of the world is well positioned to lead ocean conservation efforts and provides a suitable case study for analysis of protection conferred by existing MPAs. To this end, Portuguese MPAs were assessed according to different types of classification systems and it was found that most MPAs confer little or no additional protection compared to outside areas. The results differ according to the classification system used, revealing the importance of finding a common system for evaluating progress in ocean conservation. The relevance of adequately labelling and understanding the levels of protection in place is demonstrated. Not differentiating the type of protection conferred by MPA regulations, while rushing towards international targets, may give a potentially false impression to society."	NonUS	Conservation
"Urban environments offer substantial opportunities for wildlife conservation as they commonly overlap the distribution of native species and comprise structurally complex and diverse habitats. Conservation strategies within urban environments currently focus on enhancing or maintaining natural remnant vegetation despite the variety of smaller greenspaces that are known to support wildlife. Residential gardens in particular comprise a major component of the total greenspace in urban areas and offer numerous resources that can be used by multiple taxa, and may therefore represent an important, yet unrealised opportunity for conservation. In this study we aimed to further the understanding of the potential value of gardens for biodiversity conservation by comparing the diversity, presence, abundance and reproductive activity of mammals in gardens to natural urban bushland remnants. We demonstrate that gardens support a similar diversity of native mammals as urban bushland and that the presence, abundance and reproductive activity for most native mammals was similar in both bushland and gardens. With the exception of domestic pets, the presence and abundance of introduced species was not higher in gardens compared to urban bushland. Our study highlights that the potential role of residential gardens for biodiversity conservation should not be overlooked. Given that novel urban ecosystems will continue to expand, inclusion of gardens in wildlife conservation and management actions is likely to greatly increase our ability to conserve wildlife in urban habitats."	NonUS	Conservation
"The most important structural changes of the marine communities of the Ligurian Sea (Mediterranean Sea) are described and discussed, stemming from scientific contributions published in the last decades. The main causes of disturbance and stress along the coastline were, since long time ago: huge urban, touristic and industrial developments, harbour activities, building of littoral rail- and motorways, beach replenishments, presence of several polluted drainages, impact of fishery activities. Nevertheless, the EQR-CARLIT index recently evidenced a moderate seawater quality and ecological status, indicating a slow, but progressive improvement of the littoral environment. But, in a changing climate, thermal stress anomalies in 1999, 2003 and 2006 determined major changes in the structure of benthic and fish communities. In addition, the plankton showed significant changes, especially in terms of primary production, while the disappearance of some species and the arrival of others, even of commercial interest, were recorded. Starting from the late 1980s, some thermophilous and/or Lessepsian species reached the Ligurian Sea, often determining processes of meridionalization and tropicalization of the basin. In a relatively short time span, i.e., 30-40 years, the structural complexity of Ligurian marine communities changed dramatically as never observed before in historical times."	NonUS	Ecology
"Sixteen USEPA priority polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Twenty-three samples were collected from the surface sediments of Qinhuangdao coastal wetlands in this survey. This research aimed to identify the PAHs contamination level, composition pattern, pollution sources, and assess the ecological risk of PAHs. The results showed that the sum of PAH concentrations ranged from 341.61 ng/g to 4703.80 ng/g (mean: 1367.80 ng/g), which is higher than the reported values for different wetlands worldwide. Five- and four-ring PAHs (34.08% and 32.97% of Sigma 16PAHs, severally) were predominant in the wetland sediment. The PAH source distribution in the surface sediments was determined using diagnostic ratio and PCA/MLR. Consequently, multiple PAH sources were found. Of the total PAHs, 70.01% was derived from vehicular emission, 25.73% from coke oven, and 4.26% from petroleum-based product spills. The effect range low/effect range median (ERL/ERM) values indicated a low toxicity risk level. However, the DBahA concentrations exceeded the ERL level, and even the ERM level, in some stations. The mean effects range-median quotient (M-ERM-Q) suggests a low ecological risk for the PAHs, but a medium risk for some stations in the coastal wetland sediments."	NonUS	Ecology
"Vegetated roofs are hoped to benefit urban wildlife, yet there are few empirical results regarding the conservation potential of such roofs. In this paper, we focus on arthropods on vegetated roofs. We vacuum sampled 17 succulent, meadow or succulent-meadow roofs, in Helsinki, Finland, and used order to species level information together with trait data to describe the communities. We evaluated the importance of biophysical roof characteristics on shaping arthropod assemblages to provide information concerning roof designs that promote rich arthropod fauna. Arthropod communities differed between the three roof types and the influence of roof variables varied between and within arthropod orders. The main local drivers of arthropod abundance across the individually analysed taxa were roof height and vegetation, with mainly positive effects of height (up to 11 m) and litter cover, and mainly negative effects of grass cover. Based on trait data from true bugs, spiders and ants, the roofs consisted mainly of common dispersive species that are generalist feeders and associated with dry open habitats or have wide habitat tolerance. We found one true bug species new to the country and assume that it arrived with imported vegetation. Based on these findings, vegetated roofs of varying height and size benefit common generalists and fauna of open dry habitats, but seem to lack rare native specialists and may introduce non-natives if imported plant material is used. Because the responses to vegetation characteristics are taxon-specific, high diversity of roof vegetation types would benefit arthropod conservation."	NonUS	Conservation
"Increasing anthropogenic noise is having a global impact on wildlife, particularly due to the masking of crucial acoustical communication. However, there have been few studies examining the impacts of noise exposure on communication in free-ranging terrestrial mammals. We studied alarm calls of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) across an urban gradient to explore vocal adjustment relative to different levels of noise exposure. There was no change in the frequency 5%, peak frequency, or duration of the alarm calls across the noise gradient. However, the minimum frequency-a commonly used, yet potentially compromised metric-did indeed show a positive relationship with noise exposure. We suspect this is a result of masking of observable call properties by noise, rather than behavioral adjustment. In addition, the proximity of conspecifics and the distance to the perceived threat (observer) did affect the frequency 5% of alarm calls. These results reveal that prairie dogs do not appear to be adjusting their alarm calls in noisy environments but likely do in relation to their social context and the proximity of a predatory threat. Anthropogenic noise can elicit a range of behavioral and physiological responses across taxa, but elucidating the specific mechanisms driving these responses can be challenging, particularly as these are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Our research sheds light on how prairie dogs appear to respond to noise as a source of increased risk, rather than as a distraction or through acoustical masking as shown in other commonly studied species (e.g., fish, songbirds, marine mammals). Lay Summary: Songbirds, amphibians, and marine mammals have been shown to alter their vocalizations in noisy environments. We conducted one of the first studies on the effects of noise on communication in a terrestrial mammal-the prairie dog. Interestingly, prairie dogs did not appear to adjust their alarm call frequency or duration with increasing noise exposure, while our previous research demonstrated that their behavioral response to noise is similar to elevated predation risk-reduced foraging and increased vigilance."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Throughout the equatorial tropics, forest conversion to agriculture often fragments crucial primate habitat. In 30 years, 80% of the alluvial lowland forests along the Kinabatangan River in Sabah, Malaysian Borneo, have been supplanted by oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) plantations. Today, only about 20% of the former orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus morio) population remains in the region. Because most of the land is now under the tenure of agribusiness companies, we used a pragmatic approach of mixed biosocial methods and citizen science engagement of oil palm growers (N = 6) as active conservation partners to study orangutan use of the privately administered landscape between protected forest fragments. We found that 22 of 25 remanent forest patches (0.5 to 242 hectares) surveyed within plantations contained food or shelter resources useful for orangutans. Of these, 20 are in regular transitory use by wider-ranging adult male orangutans, and in 9 patches, females are resident and raising offspring isolated within oil palm plantations. These findings indicate that orangutans retain a measure of normal metapopulation dynamics necessary for viability at the landscape level despite drastic habitat modification. We found that barriers to in situ conservation in these agroforest matrices were due to the following misconceptions across sectors: 1) Good farming practices require exclusion of wildlife; 2) Orangutans seen in plantations must be rescued by people; and 3) Translocation is an appropriate conservation strategy, and nondetrimental to orangutans. Our exploratory study exemplifies the value of biosocial methods and collaboration with industrial-scale farmers to support primate resilience in forests fragmented by agriculture."	NonUS	Conservation
"Simple Summary The Wolong National Nature Reserve in Sichuan province covers a unique mountainous ecosystem located on the eastern border of the Tibetan Plateau in China. We applied a popular non-invasive observational method, i.e., infrared-triggered camera trapping, to gain thousands of photographs of wildlife to monitor biodiversity over three years. Combined with data on the local abiotic factors, our integrative statistical analysis identified the key environmental drivers, i.e., temperature and vegetation, affecting the distribution and abundance of mammals and birds in the reserve. All species were classified into three main types by their tolerance of or fondness for different environmental conditions. The detectability of each species by camera trapping was quantified and ranked to provide insights on each species' relative abundance in the area. The high-altitude ecosystem of the Tibetan Plateau in China is a biodiversity hotspot that provides unique habitats for endemic and relict species along an altitudinal gradient at the eastern edge. Acquiring biodiversity information in this area, where the average altitude is over 4000 m, has been difficult but has been aided by recent developments in non-invasive technology, including infrared-triggered camera trapping. We used camera trapping to acquire a substantial number of photographic wildlife records in Wolong National Nature Reserve, Sichuan, China, from 2013 to 2016. We collected information of the habitat surrounding the observation sites, resulting in a dataset covering 37 species and 12 environmental factors. We performed a multivariate statistical analysis to discern the dominant environmental factors and cluster the mammals and birds of the ecosystem in order to examine environmental factors contributing to the species' relative abundance. Species were generalized into three main types, i.e., cold-resistant, phyllophilic, and thermophilic, according to the identified key environmental drivers (i.e., temperature and vegetation) for their abundances. The mammal species with the highest relative abundance were bharal (Pseudois nayaur), Moupin pika (Ochotona thibetana), and Himalayan marmot (Marmota himalayana). The bird species with highest relative abundance were snow partridge (Lerwa lerwa), plain mountain finch (Leucosticte nemoricola), Chinese monal (Lophophorus lhuysii), and alpine accentor (Prunella collaris)."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Improving human capital through quality education remains a global and national priority, particularly for developing countries. Academic performance is the standard indicator of a successful acquisition of the knowledge, skills, and attitudes for improving human capital. However, recent data, particularly in wildlife areas shows that pupils often perform poorly on academic tests in low-income countries. This study aims to determine the impact of elephants on academic performance in Trans Mara District, Kenya. We use data from 137 schools and 749 pupils who wrote the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education between 2010 and 2014, and 15 key informants. We used descriptive statistics to analyze and interpret our data. Results show that locating a school outside the elephant range positively contributed to higher mean scores compared to ethnicity, pupil-teacher ratio and gender. Whereas day facilities only strongly contributed to lower scores compared to examination entry, age of the pupil, and ethnicity. The study places elephants on both ends of the villain-scapegoat continuum since their presence alone does not make a major contribution to poor academic performance in the Trans Mara District. We recommend providing cheaper and accessible transport to pupils, expanding both day and boarding facilities, establishing additional schools closer to pupils within elephant range to reduce the distances to school. These initiatives must be linked to the conservation of elephants as a suit of direct incentives for coexisting with elephants."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"In today's societies, scavengers play an important role as providers of nature's contribution to people (NCP), such as disease control and carcass removal. Yet very little is known about the non-material NCP (i.e. nature's effects on subjective and psychological aspects of people's well-being) that scavengers provide societies with. The first aim of this study is to determine which species of obligate and facultative scavengers provide different non-material NCP in Spain, including recreational and aesthetic experiences, learning and inspiration, and supporting identities. The second aim is to identify which ecological variables determine their capacity to provide the aforementioned non-material NCP. To assess non-material NCP nationwide, data were collected from different sources, including the Internet (websites of nature photography and wildlife watching tours, Global Biodiversity Information Facility, and Google Trends), outreach magazines and scientific articles. A top predator, Canis lupus, followed by an obligate scavenger, Gyps fulvus, were among the most prominent species to provide multiple non-material NCP. Aesthetic experiences were provided mainly by common species, such as Genetta genetta, Milvus migrans and corvids. The NCP of recreation and learning by civil society were provided by threatened and charismatic species, such as C. lupus, Ursus arctos and Aquila adalberti. Knowledge acquired by scientists was provided mainly by meso-carnivores. Finally, the NCP of supporting identities was related with species capable of providing beneficial and detrimental contributions, such as C. lupus and Sus scrofa. Integrating data mined from different sources has allowed it to reveal the interweaving among non-material categories. Recognising that all species of scavengers are essential for providing non-material NCP can raise society's awareness about their important cultural role and may, hence, contribute to their conservation."	NonUS	Ecology
"Increases in local and global stressors have led to major declines in coral populations throughout the western Atlantic. While abundances of other species have declined, however, the relative abundance of the mustard hill coral, Porites astreoides, has increased. Porites astreoides is relatively resilient to some stressors, and because of its mixed reproductive strategies, its populations often recover quickly following disturbances. The ability for P. astreoides to continue as a potential winner in western Atlantic reefs relies on maintaining sufficient genetic variation within populations to support acclimatization and adaptation to current and future environmental change. Without high genetic diversity and gene flow within the population, it would have limited capacity for adaptation and the species' competitive advantages could be short-lived. In this study, we determined the genetic relatedness of 37 P. astreoides colonies at four shallow reefs along the offshore Florida Keys Reef Tract (FKRT), a region particularly hard-hit by recent disturbances. Using previously designed microsatellite markers, we determined the genetic diversity and connectivity of individuals among and between sites. Our results suggest that the FKRT likely contains a single, well-mixed genetic population of P. astreoides, with high levels of gene flow and evidence for larval migration throughout the region. This suggests that regional populations of P. astreoides likely have a higher chance of maintaining resilience than many other western Atlantic species as they face current and future disturbances."	USA	Genetics
"Combining carnivore movements with site visits to investigate predation events can inform investigators of carnivore diets, kill rates, and risk factors for prey. However, detecting remains of prey can be challenging when prey is small or when vegetation conceals prey. Conservation detection dogs (CDDs) have assisted with wildlife surveys to locate objects of conservation interest, often improving detection over human counterparts. We hypothesized that CDDs would improve efficacy for detection of prey remains at kill locations compared to human searchers. We compared the efficacy of CDD teams (1 dog, 1 human handler) and technician teams (2 humans) for locating prey remains at 729 carnivore cluster (potential predation) sites in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, USA, during May to August of 2015. Carnivore species included gray wolves (Canis lupus), coyotes (C. latrans), bobcats (Lynx rufus), and American black bears (Ursus americanus). Overall, CDD teams identified prey remains at 2.3 times more clusters, required 42% less search time, and handlers traveled 83% less distance per detected prey remain compared to technician teams. Within carnivore species, CDD teams detected small prey remains at a greater rate than technician teams (4.0-4.3 times greater) for all carnivores except for bobcat which had similar detection rate. Detection of large prey remains (e.g., adult ungulates) was similar between CDD teams and technician teams. Our study supports CDDs ability to outperform humans when searching for objects of conservation interest which are visually cryptic but traceable by scent. Where logistics allow, we recommend use of CDDs over human searchers when it is a priority to locate remains of small prey and when vegetation is dense and may obscure even larger prey items. (c) 2021 The Wildlife Society."	USA	Technology
"Indigenous peoples have occupied the northwestern North American coast for at least 15 000years-a time when much of the land was covered by a kilometre or more of ice and only patches of land were glacier free. Over the millennia, through difficult times and seasons of plenty, they have built up an immense body of local knowledge, practice, and belief-Indigenous, or Traditional Ecological Knowledge-enabling them to live well, learning about the plants and animals of terrestrial, aquatic, and marine environments on which they have depended, and how to harvest and process them into nutritious foods, healing medicines, and useful materials. Although it has been commonly assumed that these people, as so-called hunter-gatherers, were simply helping themselves to nature's provisions, over decades of learning from Indigenous plant specialists and other knowledge holders as an ethnobotanist, I have come to see First Peoples as resource tenders and managers over countless generations. Their traditional land and resource management systems provide many lessons on how we humans can work with natural processes to ensure the well-being not only of ourselves but also of the species and habitats on which we rely."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Inbreeding (mating between relatives) is a major concern for conservation as it decreases individual fitness and can increase the risk of population extinction. We used whole-genome resequencing of 97 grey wolves (Canis lupus) from the highly inbred Scandinavian wolf population to identify 'identical-by-descent' (IBD) chromosome segments as runs of homozygosity (ROH). This gave the high resolution required to precisely measure realized inbreeding as the IBD fraction of the genome in ROH (F-ROH). We found a striking pattern of complete or near-complete homozygosity of entire chromosomes in many individuals. The majority of individual inbreeding was due to long IBD segments (>5 cM) originating from ancestors <= 10 generations ago, with 10 genomic regions showing very few ROH and forming candidate regions for containing loci contributing strongly to inbreeding depression. Inbreeding estimated with an extensive pedigree (F-P) was strongly correlated with realized inbreeding measured with the entire genome (r(2) = 0.86). However, inbreeding measured with the whole genome was more strongly correlated with multi-locus heterozygosity estimated with as few as 500 single nucleotide polymorphisms, and with F-ROH estimated with as few as 10,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms, than with F-P. These results document in fine detail the genomic consequences of intensive inbreeding in a population of conservation concern."	NonUS	Genetics
"Freshwater habitat restoration is a major conservation objective, motivating efforts to restore habitat complexity and quality for fishes. Restoration based on the engineering activities of beavers (Castor canadensis) increases fish habitat complexity, but how this affects fish habitat use and movement behaviours is not well known. We used a network of passive integrated transponder antennas to quantify small-scale movement and microhabitat use of 175 individual juvenile steelhead (Oncorhynchus mykiss) in a stream channel with a complex bathymetric profile resulting from a beaver impoundment and in a simplified channel devoid of beaver activity. Our results show that juvenile steelhead exploit microhabitat heterogeneity by employing a range of behaviours that maximizes available habitat via spatial and temporal partitioning among individuals. These results suggest spatial resource partitioning as a potential mechanism for the previously established positive correlations among steelhead density, survival, and production with beaver-based restoration within the study watershed. More broadly, our findings provide insight as to how populations can exploit habitat complexity through spatial partitioning that can be informative for planning restoration and management actions."	USA	Conservation
"Oxygen (O-2) is essential for most metazoan life due to its central role in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), which generates >90% of the cellular adenosine triphosphate. O-2 fluctuations are an ultimate mitochondrial stressor resulting in mitochondrial damage, energy deficiency, and cell death. This work provides an overview of the known and putative mechanisms involved in mitochondrial tolerance to fluctuating O-2 conditions in hypoxia-tolerant organisms including aquatic and terrestrial vertebrates and invertebrates. Mechanisms of regulation of the mitochondrial OXPHOS and electron transport system (ETS) (including alternative oxidases), sulphide tolerance, regulation of redox status and mitochondrial quality control, and the potential role of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) in mitochondrial tolerance to hypoxia are discussed. Mitochondrial phenotypes of distantly related animal species reveal common features including conservation and/or anticipatory upregulation of ETS capacity, suppression of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-producing electron flux through ubiquinone, reversible suppression of OXPHOS activity, and investment into the mitochondrial quality control mechanisms. Despite the putative importance of oxidative stress in adaptations to hypoxia, establishing the link between hypoxia tolerance and mitochondrial redox mechanisms is complicated by the difficulties of establishing the species-specific concentration thresholds above which the damaging effects of ROS outweigh their potentially adaptive signaling function. The key gaps in our knowledge about the potential mechanisms of mitochondrial tolerance to hypoxia include regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis and fusion/fission dynamics, and HIF-dependent metabolic regulation that require further investigation in hypoxia-tolerant species. Future physiological, molecular and genetic studies of mitochondrial responses to hypoxia, and reoxygenation in phylogenetically diverse hypoxia-tolerant species could reveal novel solutions to the ubiquitous and metabolically severe problem of O-2 deficiency and would have important implications for understanding the evolution of hypoxia tolerance and the potential mitigation of pathological states caused by O-2 fluctuations."	NonUS	Genetics
"Camera traps are an increasingly popular tool to monitor wildlife distributions. However, traditional analytical approaches to camera trap data are difficult to apply to visible wildlife characteristics in single images, such as infection status. Several parasites produce visible signs of infection that could be sampled via camera traps. Sarcoptic mange Sarcoptes scabiei is an ideal disease to study using cameras because it results in visible hair loss and affects a broad host range. Here, we developed a multi-state occupancy model to estimate the occurrence of mange in coyotes Canis latrans across an urban gradient. This model incorporates a secondary detection function for apparent by-image infection status to provide detection-corrected estimates of mange occurrence. We analysed a multi-year camera trap dataset in Chicago, Illinois, United States, to test whether the apparent occurrence of sarcoptic mange in coyotes Canis latrans increases with urbanization or varies through time. We documented visible signs consistent with current or recovering mange infection and variables we hypothesized would improve mange detection: The proportion of the coyote in frame, image blur and whether the image was in colour. We were more likely to detect coyotes with mange in images that were less blurry, in colour, and if a greater proportion of the coyote was visible. Mangy coyote occupancy was significantly higher in urban developed areas with low housing density and higher canopy cover whereas coyote occupancy, mangy or otherwise, decreased with urbanization. By incorporating image quality into our by-image detection function, we provide a robust method to non-invasively survey visible aspects of wildlife health with camera traps. Apparently mangy coyotes were associated with low-density forested neighbourhoods, which may offer vegetated areas while containing sources of anthropogenic resources. This association may contribute to human-wildlife conflict and reinforces posited relationships between infection risk and habitat use. More generally, our model could provide detection-corrected occupancy estimates of visible characteristics that vary by image such as body condition or injuries."	USA	HumanWildlife
"Despite that cetaceans provide significant ecological contributions to the health and stability of aquatic ecosystems, they are highly endangered with nearly one-third of species assessed as threatened with extinction. Nevertheless, to date, few studies have explicitly examined the patterns and processes of extinction risk and threats for this taxon, and even less between the two subclades (Mysticeti and Odontoceti). To fill this gap, we compiled a dataset of six intrinsic traits (active region, geographic range size, body weight, diving depth, school size, and reproductive cycle), six environmental factors relating to sea surface temperature and chlorophyll concentration, and two human-related threat indices that are commonly recognized for cetaceans. We then employed phylogenetic generalized least squares models and model selection to identify the key predictors of extinction risk in all cetaceans, as well as in the two subclades. We found that geographic range size, sea surface temperature, and human threat index were the most important predictors of extinction risk in all cetaceans and in odontocetes. Interestingly, maximum body weight was positively associated with the extinction risk in mysticetes, but negatively related to that for odontocetes. By linking seven major threat types to extinction risk, we further revealed that fisheries bycatch was the most common threat, yet the impacts of certain threats could be overestimated when considering all species rather than just threatened ones. Overall, we suggest that conservation efforts should focus on small-ranged cetaceans and species living in warmer waters or under strong anthropogenic pressures. Moreover, further studies should consider the threatened status of species when superimposing risk maps and quantifying risk severity. Finally, we emphasize that mysticetes and odontocetes should be conserved with different strategies, because their extinction risk patterns and major threat types are considerably different. For instance, large-bodied mysticetes and small-ranged odontocetes require special conservation priority."	NonUS	Conservation
"The fisheries for small pelagic species in Angola, Namibia and South Africa fulfil important social and economic roles but have undergone substantial changes in recent years, some of which are likely to be related to climate change. This assessment of vulnerability and possible adaptation options for the main stakeholder groups in these fisheries was based on a framework encompassing ecological, social and economic vulnerability and the broader economic and governance context of the countries. Information was gathered through stakeholder consultations and workshops as well as from published information. Adaptation options were identified primarily through consultation with stakeholders. Namibia was considered to have the most vulnerable fishery because of the poor state of the sardine population and limited alternatives. Angola and South Africa were estimated to be moderately vulnerable for different reasons. Alternative sources of livelihoods are scarce, and the wellbeing of stakeholders is highly dependent on the resilience and adaptive capacity of individual fishing companies. For land-based and sea-going workers (fulltime and permanent), skills improvement to increase their flexibility and employability within and beyond fisheries is a primary adaptation option. Key roles for governments include ensuring effective governance and facilitating sustainable economic development, especially in underdeveloped coastal areas."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Marine tourism is increasing in popularity, which may cause conflicts among tourists who value different aspects of settings and experiences. Visitors surveyed before and after tours to Molokini Shoal Marine Life Conservation District in Hawaii (USA) reported considerable (63%) in-group conflicts (bump into people and rude or discourteous) between snorkelers and other snorkelers. One third of scuba divers experienced conflicts with other divers. Most conflicts were interpersonal (interactions between individuals interfering with experiences). There were fewer out-group conflicts between snorkelers and divers (15-28%) and minimal social values conflicts (6-13%; negative preconceptions without interactions). Many visitors had strong biocentric and protectionist value orientations toward the environment and coral reefs, and these individuals were most likely to report conflicts."	USA	HumanWildlife
"To determine the proportion of inviable oocytes that are spawned along with normal oocytes in marine bivalves, we turned to a time-honored technique not previously used on invertebrate oocytes: the neutral red vital stain. Despite the difficulty in obtaining induced spawns from field-collected Cerastoderma edule (L), the results and insights from this simple procedure to answer a simple question were unexpected and far-reaching. Mean proportions of inviable oocytes in the spawns of cockle C. edule ranged from 35% to 85%, with the vast majority represented by atresic (autolyzing) oocytes. These levels are in agreement with previous quantitative histological observations of prespawning atresia in both C. edule and the Manila clam Tapes philippinarum. Such elevated prefertilization inviability mirrors the known high level of postfertilization inviability in bivalves. Together, these high levels of inviability may account for much of the early mortality in the type III survivorship curves typical of marine bivalves. The combination of high fecundity and high oocyte inviability suggests a Red Queen-type reproductive dilemma in these species. In addition, the great degree of interindividual variation observed in oocyte inviability suggests that cockles, and perhaps other intertidal bivalves, present a Sweepstakes Reproductive Strategy, in which highly variable individual fecundity confronts a highly variable environment. The neutral red technique promises to be a useful tool for investigating prespawning inviability in other marine taxa, as well as for aquaculture, conservation, restocking, ecophysiology, and environmental monitoring."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Ecologically similar marine species inhabiting the same areas compete for food resources. Such competition is reduced by resource-partitioning strategies that may affect physiology. For instance, diet and feeding strategies may affect the antioxidant defences or the production of reactive oxygen species. Oxidative stress is defined as the imbalance between pro-oxidants and antioxidant defences. If such an imbalance favours the former, this can lead to oxidative damage, and oxidative stress increases. However, to our knowledge, how free-ranging animals adjust their oxidative status in relation to their foraging habitats, diet and dietary antioxidants has not yet been studied. Penguins are an interesting biological model for such a comparison because their diet, based on krill, fish and/or cephalopods, presents strong variation in dietary antioxidant content. We therefore examined trophic level (delta N-15), foraging habitat (delta C-13), dietary antioxidants (retinol, alpha-tocopherol and astaxanthin) and oxidative status (plasma non-enzymatic antioxidant capacity and oxidative damage) in pygoscelid penguins (chinstrap Pygoscelis antarcticus, gentoo P. papua and Adelie P. adeliae) breeding in Antarctica. We found interspecific differences in all variables analysed except alpha-tocopherol. Gentoo penguins exploited more cephalopods and fish in coastal and benthic habitats, Adelies showed an intermediate position, whereas chinstraps foraged more on krill and fish in pelagic waters. Dietary antioxidant levels showed specific patterns resulting in relationships with prey items. However, we did not find any clear relationships between dietary antioxidants and species-specific antioxidant capacity, suggesting the importance of endogenously produced antioxidants. Oxidative status appeared to be differently related to foraging strategy and antioxidant capacity in each species."	NonUS	Ecology
"We assessed habitat use by the population of Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin, Sousa chinensis, in the waters off Zhanjiang, China, by performing boat-based surveys between 2013 and 2018. In total, we gathered 253 sightings of humpback dolphins. To assess habitat use of humpback dolphins within the study area, we measured two spatial metrics at each sighting site: WDT (tide-calibrated water-depth) and DS (distance to the nearest shore). Results showed that dolphins mainly were observed in shallow (WDT: 8.46 +/- 5.13 m, mean +/- SD) and inshore (DS: 2.17 +/- 2.14 km) waters. Their preference of inhabiting shallow waters was more apparent during the wet season (April-September) than during the dry season (October-March); however, they were encountered in waters much closer to shore during the dry season than the wet season. By weighting survey effort, our sighting density maps further confirmed that humpback dolphins changed their habitat use between wet and dry seasons. Such spatiotemporal variations in dolphin habitat use might be associated with spatiotemporal movements of their prey. Our findings provide insights into variations in fine-scale habitat use of inshore apex predators, and also assist to designate proper conservation measures for these vulnerable animals."	NonUS	Ecology
"Many organisms spend the unfavourable part of the year, such as the winter season, in diapause or dormancy and reproduce in spring shortly after emergence. Reserves are acquired prior to diapause to cover metabolic costs and in some species also reproduction (capital breeding) directly after diapause. Storage is then a component of future reproduction, and capital breeders consequently pay a pre-breeding cost of reproduction as they risk dying while obtaining and carrying the reserves. How large should the reserves be, and to what extent should optimal storage, and thereby timing of diapause, depend on predation risk and reproductive strategy? We present a general and simplistic life history model of an arthropod (e.g. crustaceans or insects) that is exposed to background mortality risk when it accumulates reserves before diapause. The model optimizes diapause timing and resultant reserves for income, mixed and capital breeders, and predicts how mortality risk affects the degree of capital breeding. For income breeders, timing of diapause is insensitive to the risk while obtaining reserves as they, regardless of risk, acquire the minimum amount needed to survive the winter. For capital breeders, the higher the risk the earlier the diapause and less is consequently stored. Mixed breeders diapause late and store as much as pure capital breeders when exposed to low risk, but behave as income breeders and diapause early when mortality is high. Our model shows that the degree of capital breeding impacts phenology of diapause in a risk-dependent manner. This prediction should impact how diapause timing is thought of across a wide range of taxa, including the much studied marine copepods. Timing of diapause, including triggers and cues, can only be understood when the diversity of reproductive strategies and the adaptive value of storage is taken into account."	NonUS	Ecology
"The complete mitogenome of Echinometra sp. EZ has been described and fully annotated in this study. Phylogenetic analysis of cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) from six Echinometra species confirms that our sample is E. sp. EZ. The mitogenome is 15,698 bp in length and contains 13 protein-coding genes, 22 tRNAs, 2 rRNAs, and a non-coding region with an identical organization to other Echinoidea. The E. sp. EZ mitogenome shared similar to 99.1% identity to the published Echinometra mathaei mitogenome, differing by 147 SNPs. The E. sp. EZ mitogenome will serve as a resource that can be applied to disentangling the Echinometra species complex and to future population genetic studies of this ecologically important sea urchin species."	USA	Genetics
"For species of conservation concern, including lake sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens), maintaining genetic diversity is critical for successful restoration. Great Lakes lake sturgeon restoration increasingly relies on hatchery supplementation and stream-side rearing facilities that utilize collections of eggs and off -spring of early life stages. The number of wild-caught eggs/larvae sampled is not likely an accurate pre-dictor of spawning adult number, nor of hatchery cohort diversity. We used microsatellite loci and likelihood-based pedigree reconstruction to quantify offspring diversity, and the number and effective number of adult lake sturgeon contributing to offspring reared in the Manistee River stream-side hatch-ery facility in Michigan. Over 10 years (2005-2014) 1129 samples from stream collections of eggs, dis-persing larvae, and juveniles were genotyped. Inter-annual variation in estimated mean offspring co-ancestry (Theta 0.013-0.030), numbers of contributing adults (N-s 23-72), and effective number of breeding adults ((N) over cap (b) 17-43) were documented. Combining samples across 10 years we estimated that mean off -spring co-ancestry was 0.005, the number of spawning adults (N-s) contributing to offspring released was 326, while the harmonic mean effective number of breeding adults ((N) over cap (b)) was estimated to be 29.5 (lower than 10 times 29.5 for semelparous species). Forty-eight percent of adults contributed one or more offspring in two or more years. Demographic (non-Poisson distribution of adult reproductive success, low (N) over cap (b), relatedness among offspring within and annual N-s and repeated spawning) and genetic (low annual among year cohorts) features depressed levels of diversity. Implications to species recovery planning are discussed considering low numbers of adults recruiting offspring annually. (C) 2022 International Association for Great Lakes Research. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	USA	Genetics
"Genetic composition can influence host susceptibility to, and transmission of, pathogens, with potential population-level consequences. In bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), pneumonia epidemics caused by Mycoplasma ovipneumoniae have been associated with severe population declines and limited recovery across North America. Adult survivors either clear the infection or act as carriers that continually shed M. ovipneumoniae and expose their susceptible offspring, resulting in high rates of lamb mortality for years following the outbreak event. Here, we investigated the influence of genomic composition on persistent carriage of M. ovipneumoniae in a well-studied bighorn sheep herd in the Wallowa Mountains of Oregon, USA. Using 10,605 SNPs generated using RADseq technology for 25 female bighorn sheep, we assessed genomic diversity metrics and employed family-based genome-wide association methodologies to understand variant association and genetic architecture underlying chronic carriage. We observed no differences among genome-wide diversity metrics (heterozygosity and allelic richness) between groups. However, we identified two variant loci of interest and seven associated candidate genes, which may influence carriage status. Further, we found that the SNP panel explained similar to 55% of the phenotypic variance (SNP-based heritability) for M. ovipneumoniae carriage, though there was considerable uncertainty in these estimates. While small sample sizes limit conclusions drawn here, our study represents one of the first to assess the genomic factors influencing chronic carriage of a pathogen in a wild population and lays a foundation for understanding genomic influence on pathogen persistence in bighorn sheep and other wildlife populations. Future research should incorporate additional individuals as well as distinct herds to further explore the genomic basis of chronic carriage."	USA	Genetics
"Plasticity in the physiological and behavioural responses of animals to prolonged food shortages may determine the persistence of species under climate warming. This is particularly applicable for species that can adaptively fast by conserving protein to protect organ function while catabolizing endogenous tissues. Some Ursids, including polar bears (Ursus maritimus), adaptively fast during winter hibernation-and it has been suggested that polar bears also employ this strategy during summer. We captured 57 adult female polar bears in the Southern Beaufort Sea (SBS) during summer 2008 and 2009 and measured blood variables that indicate feeding, regular fasting, and adaptive fasting. We also assessed tissue delta C-13 and delta N-15 to infer diet, and body condition via mass and length. We found that bears on shore maintained lipid and protein stores by scavenging on bowhead whale (Balaena mysticetus) carcasses from human harvest, while those that followed the retreating sea ice beyond the continental shelf were food deprived. They had low ratios of blood urea to creatinine (U:C), normally associated with adaptive fasting. However, they also exhibited low albumin and glucose (indicative of protein loss) and elevated alanine aminotransferase and ghrelin (which fall during adaptive fasting). Thus, the similar to 70% of the SBS subpopulation that spends summer on the ice experiences more of a regular, rather than adaptive, fast. This fast will lengthen as summer ice declines. The resulting protein loss prior to winter could be a mechanism driving the reported correlation between summer ice and polar bear reproduction and survival in the SBS."	USA	ClimateChange
"Background and aims - The intensive botanical prospections carried out in Gabon since the publication of the national checklist in 2006 have resulted in c. 34300 new specimens (amounting to 30% of all collections made in the country) and an annual increase of 25 species in average. As a result, 5175 species of vascular plants are now recorded from Gabon, of which 650 are considered endemic. However, most of the recent discoveries have not yet been published. This paper is the first of a series documenting additions to the flora of Gabon, and new records of poorly known species. It concerns specifically new records from the Lower Ogooue Ramsar site, the third largest delta of Africa, and certainly the most intact, which includes 80% of the country 's wetlands and a wide variety of other habitats. Methods - The new records presented here come essentially from fieldwork conducted in Gabon between 2008 and 2016 by the authors and colleagues. Further information comes from the study of heibarium specimens in BR, BRLU, K, LBV, MO, P and WAG. For each species, information on distribution and ecology is given, and the studied Gabonese collections listed. In case of rare or range-restricted species, collections from other countries are also listed, and a distribution map is provided, as well as an evaluation of the conservation status based on the categories and criteria of the IUCN Red List. Key results - We report 18 additions to the flora of Gabon, including four genera new to the country (Capparis, Gisekia, Hoffmanniella and Leptochloa) and the first records of the neotropical./Justicia secunda being naturalised in tropical Africa. New distribution records are also provided for 16 rare Gabonese endemics or near-endemics. Some species are also newly reported from Cameroon (Cissus leemansii, Salacia coronata) and Equatorial Guinea (Cissus leemansii, C. louisii, Lychnodiscus grandifolius, Placodiscus resendeanus, Rutidea gabonensis, Uvaria bipindensis). Two species, which were reported in the 2006 checklist based on misidentifications, are excluded from the Gabonese flora."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Costa Rica is known as a verdant, tropical paradise with rich rainforests, abundant wildlife, striking mountains and volcanoes, and picturesque beaches. However, the perceived abundance of Costa Rica's water resources is only true for part of the country. The same geography and climate that bring abundant precipitation to most of southern Costa Rica and its Caribbean coast also leave the northern Pacific province of Guanacaste with substantially less rainfall and even periods of severe drought. This case study focuses on Guanacaste province, which is a major tourist destination as well as one of the country's most productive agricultural regions. Water from the lush Caribbean slopes of the Lake Arenal region is transported across the continental divide through extensive infrastructure projects. Passing through the semi-arid regions of Guanacaste, hydroelectric power generation, extensive irrigated agriculture, and tourism development use most of the water, supporting a rapidly growing regional economy but leaving increasingly less water for environmental flows. This case study introduces students to nexus thinking to explore the multiple and overlapping water, energy, and food (WEF) demands and ecological challenges present in Guanacaste province. Each sector and its interconnections with other sectors are examined in turn through introductory lectures, and enriched by WEF systems thinking activities and class discussions. At the conclusion of this case study curriculum, students will be able to identify and characterize points of intersection, i.e., the nexus, of WEF supply and demand, and trade-offs that exist between WEF resources and biodiversity conservation."	USA	Ecology
"Transportation infrastructures are directly responsible for killing billions of animals worldwide. Although the understanding about road impacts have recently increased, the impact of railroads on wildlife has received less attention. The current knowledge concerning the impacts of railroads focuses mainly on large mammals although amphibians might be affected. Our study aims to unravel temporal and spatial patterns of Rhinella toad fatalities on a Brazilian Amazonian railroad, to comprehend how toads are killed and to estimate the magnitude of toad fatalities. Data collection was carried out on foot on an 871-km stretch of the Estrada de Ferro Carajas from 2013 to 2017. We identified different potential causes for fatalities: being run over, desiccated or with barotrauma signs. We estimated a surprisingly high carcass persistence probability of about 38 days. After correcting for the bias from carcass detection and removal, we estimated that approximately 10,000 toads are killed per year (approximate to 11 fatalities/km/year). A GLM model showed that toads were more likely to be killed in the dry to wet transition. We identified critical zones of fatalities and prioritized them according to their intensity. The highly critical segments encompass >10% of all fatalities although they cover only 1.5% of the railroad. Our study is the first one to address carcass detection and persistence on railroads and to unravel patterns of fatalities of an amphibian species in a tropical climate. A better understanding of the patterns of animal fatality on railroads is of fundamental importance to manage and mitigate this impact. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Studying the diversity and distribution of epibionts of sea turtles can provide substantial information about the behaviour and ecology of the host. Yet, such information is lacking in many areas. In the present study, the assemblage and distribution of coronuloid barnacles on the green sea turtle, Chelonia mydas were accessed in the harsh environment of the Persian Gulf. Three coronuloid barnacle species (Platylepas hexastylos, Stomatolepas transversa, and Chelonibia testudinaria) and an acorn barnacle (Balanus trigonus) were recorded. Different coronuloid barnacles occupied varying microhabitats on the turtle's body indicating their niche partitioning. Also, all three coronuloid species showed an aggregated distribution. Individuals of C. testudinaria mostly occupied the posterior margin, whereas the individuals of P. hexastylos mostly covered the anterior part of the carapace. As epibiont organisms can provide valuable insights into movement patterns, migration routes, geographical distribution as well as the health of sea turtles, the information given here can facilitate the development of strategies for the conservation of these endangered species."	NonUS	Ecology
"Ice formed in the subglacial environment can contain some of the highest concentrations of solutes, nutrients, and microbes found in glacier systems, which can be released to downstream freshwater and marine ecosystems and glacier forefields. Despite the potential ecological importance of basal ice, our understanding of its spatial and temporal biogeochemical variability remains limited. We hypothesize that the basal thermal regime of glaciers is a dominant control on subglacial biogeochemistry because it influences the degree to which glaciers mobilize material from the underlying substrate and controls the nature and extent of biogeochemical activity that occurs at glacier beds. Here, we characterize the solutes, nutrients, and microbes found in the basal regions of a cold-based glacier and three polythermal glaciers and compare them to those found in overlying glacier ice of meteoric origin. Compared to meteoric glacier ice, basal ice from polythermal glaciers was consistently enriched in major ions, dissolved organic matter (including a specific fraction of humic-like fluorescent material), and microbes and was occasionally enriched in dissolved phosphorus and reduced nitrogen (NH4+) and in a second dissolved component of humic-like fluorescent material. In contrast, the biogeochemistry of basal ice from the cold-based glacier was remarkably similar to that of meteoric glacier ice. These findings suggest that a glacier's basal thermal regime can play an important role in determining the mix of solutes, nutrients, and microbes that are acquired from subglacial substrates or produced in situ."	NonUS	Ecology
"Traditional mark-recapture studies to estimate abundance and trends of Malayan sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) populations are impeded by logistics of live-trapping wild individuals. The development of noninvasive sampling techniques for monitoring sun bear populations is therefore crucial for targeted conservation action. Sun bears have short fur, and conventional hair-snagging devices are ineffective. Moreover, scats are rapidly decomposed by the warm, humid environment, as well as by invertebrates. In combination with camera-sampling, we tested 2 designs of hair traps (n = 45) in situ at Tabin Wildlife Reserve in Sabah, Malaysia, during April-October 2017, to obtain hair samples from wild sun bears. We also deployed 4 types of hair traps in rainforest enclosures with captive sun bears to evaluate hair-capture success and the effects of weathering, lure, and adhesive on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification success. Wild adult male sun bears displayed back-rubbing behavior at hair traps and 6 individuals were identified based on unique chest marks. We collected 30 hair samples from wild sun bears, including 15 chest mark images of 6 individuals over 1,260 trap-nights. We detected adult males at hair traps more frequently than females and subadults. We obtained 39 hair samples in the captive trials. Extracted DNA from hair roots successfully amplified with mitochondrial (wild bears: 95%; captive bears: 97%) and microsatellite primers (wild bears: 100%; captive bears 87%). Adhesive and lure type did not affect PCR amplification, but weathering reduced amplification of microsatellite loci. This study is the first successful attempt to obtain genetic samples from wild sun bears using inexpensive, readily available materials such as duct tape, polybutyl glue, and locally sourced lures. The quality of genetic material from these genetic samples should be suitable for studies of population size and gene flow."	NonUS	Conservation
"Maintenance of genetic diversity is important for conserving species, especially those with fragmented habitats or ranges. In the absence of natural dispersal, translocation can be used to achieve this goal, although the success of translocation can be difficult to measure. Here we evaluate genetic change following translocation in Gunnison Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus minimus), a species reduced to 7 discrete populations with low levels of gene flow and high levels of genetic differentiation. Between 2000 and 2014, 306 birds from the largest and most genetically diverse population (Gunnison Basin) were translocated to 5 much smaller satellite populations to augment local population size and increase genetic diversity. Although the magnitude of the effect varied by population, we found evidence of increased genetic variation, decreased genetic differentiation from Gunnison Basin, and reproduction between translocated individuals and resident birds. These results suggest that translocations are impacting satellite populations, with current data providing a new baseline for genetic diversity among populations of this imperiled species."	USA	Genetics
"Understanding the joint evolutionary and ecological underpinnings of sympatry among close relatives remains a key challenge in biology. This problem can be addressed through joint phylogenomic and phenotypic analysis of complexes of closely related lineages within, and across, species and hence representing the speciation continuum. For a complex of tropical geckos from northern Australia-Gehyra nana and close relatives-we combine mtDNA phylogeography, exon-capture sequencing, and morphological data to resolve independently evolving lineages and infer their divergence history and patterns of morphological evolution. Gehyra nana is found to include nine divergent lineages and is paraphyletic with four other species from the Kimberley region of north-west Australia. Across these 13 taxa, 12 of which are restricted to rocky habitats, several lineages overlap geographically, including on the diverse Kimberley islands. Morphological evolution is dominated by body size shifts, and both body size and shape have evolved gradually across the group. However, larger body size shifts are observed among overlapping taxa than among closely related parapatric lineages of G.nana, and sympatric lineages are more divergent than expected at random. Whether elevated body size differences among sympatric lineages are due to ecological sorting or character displacement remains to be determined."	NonUS	Ecology
"Euphausiids are a keystone species in coastal food webs due to their high lipid content and seasonally high biomass. Understanding the habitat and environmental drivers that lead to areas of high biomass, or 'hotspots', and their seasonal persistence, will support the identification of important foraging regions for mid- and upper- trophic level predators. We quantify the distribution of hotspots of the two dominant species of euphausiid in the north-east Pacific Ocean: Euphausia pacifica and Thysanoessa spinifera, as well as euphausiid larvae (mixed species). The Canadian coast encompasses the northern California Current Ecosystem and the transition zone to the Alaska current, and is a highly productive region for fisheries, marine mammals, and seabirds. We used spatiotemporal modelling to predict the distribution of these three euphausiid groups in relation to geomorphic and environmental variables during the important spring-summer months (April through September) when euphausiid biomass is highest. We quantified the area, intensity, and persistence of biomass hotspots across months according to specific oceanographic ecosections developed for marine spatial planning purposes. Persistent hotspots of both adult species were predicted to occur along the 200 m depth contour of the continental slope; however, differences were predicted on the shallower Dixon shelf, which was a key area for T. spinifera, and within the Juan de Fuca Eddy system where E. pacifica hotspots occurred. The continental slope along the west coast of Vancouver Island was the only persistent hotspot region common between both adult species and euphausiid larvae. Larval distribution was more correlated with T. spinifera than E. pacifica biomass. Hotspots of adults were more persistent across months than hotspots of euphausiid larvae, which were seasonally patchy. The persistence of biomass hotspots of forage species through periods of low overall biomass could maintain trophic connectivity through perturbation events and increase ecosystem resilience to climate change."	NonUS	Ecology
"Sand shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) shrublands are estimated to have once occupied 5-7 million ha across the southwestern United States. As a result of herbicide and plowing, this endemic vegetation community has been significantly reduced in extent. Further, sand shinnery oak shrublands were historically maintained by relatively frequent fires, but recent fire suppression has resulted in substantial changes in plant community composition and structure where this vegetation type remains. Few studies have been conducted to determine wildlife species composition and richness in remaining sand shinnery oak shrublands and how management practices, such as fire, may influence species occurrence. In this study, we conducted breeding bird surveys in an intact sand shinnery oak shrubland managed with prescribed fire in western Oklahoma to describe the breeding bird assemblage and evaluate the effects of prescribed fire on species abundance. We found the breeding bird community varied along a gradient of sites with high tree/tall shrub density to more open sites dominated by grasses and sand shinnery oak. Bird species richness increased with higher tree/tall shrub densities and declined with greater cover of grasses, shrubs, and bare ground. The 10 most common bird species displayed a range of responses to prescribed fire. Species such as northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) and field sparrow (Spizella pusilla) had their greatest relative abundance in recently burned patches, and species such as painted bunting (Passerina ciris) and Bewick's wren (Thryomanes bewickii) were most abundant in patches that were > 36 mo post fire, with many of the remaining species having peak abundance in intermediate times since fire. Our findings show prescribed fire can be used to create a diversity of vegetation structure that provides habitat for multiple shrubland and grassland bird species. However, factors such as tree density and precipitation may influence the response of bird species to prescribed fire. (C) 2021 The Society for Range Management. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	USA	Ecology
"Background Anthrax is an important zoonotic disease in Kenya associated with high animal and public health burden and widespread socio-economic impacts. The disease occurs in sporadic outbreaks that involve livestock, wildlife, and humans, but knowledge on factors that affect the geographic distribution of these outbreaks is limited, challenging public health intervention planning. Methods Anthrax surveillance data reported in southern Kenya from 2011 to 2017 were modeled using a boosted regression trees (BRT) framework. An ensemble of 100 BRT experiments was developed using a variable set of 18 environmental covariates and 69 unique anthrax locations. Model performance was evaluated using AUC (area under the curve) ROC (receiver operating characteristics) curves. Results Cattle density, rainfall of wettest month, soil clay content, soil pH, soil organic carbon, length of longest dry season, vegetation index, temperature seasonality, in order, were identified as key variables for predicting environmental suitability for anthrax in the region. BRTs performed well with a mean AUC of 0.8. Areas highly suitable for anthrax were predicted predominantly in the southwestern region around the shared Kenya-Tanzania border and a belt through the regions and highlands in central Kenya. These suitable regions extend westwards to cover large areas in western highlands and the western regions around Lake Victoria and bordering Uganda. The entire eastern and lower-eastern regions towards the coastal region were predicted to have lower suitability for anthrax. Conclusion These modeling efforts identified areas of anthrax suitability across southern Kenya, including high and medium agricultural potential regions and wildlife parks, important for tourism and foreign exchange. These predictions are useful for policy makers in designing targeted surveillance and/or control interventions in Kenya. We thank the staff of Directorate of Veterinary Services under the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, for collecting and providing the anthrax historical occurrence data. Author summary Anthrax is a neglected zoonosis worldwide. In Kenya, outbreaks have been reported in wildlife, livestock, and humans, resulting in severe public health burden and socio-economic impacts. Because of this, anthrax is ranked as the highest priority disease in the country. To identify factors that influence the spatial distribution of the disease in Kenya, we analyzed surveillance on available anthrax outbreaks recorded in the southern half of the country. Areas predicted to be highly suitable for the disease were predominantly in the southwestern region around the shared Kenya-Tanzania border running as a belt through central regions and central highlands of Kenya. These suitability regions extend westwards to cover large areas in western highlands and the western regions around Lake Victoria and bordering Uganda. The entire eastern and lower-eastern regions towards the coastal region were predicted to have lower suitability for anthrax. Cattle density, rainfall of wettest month, soil clay content, soil pH, soil organic carbon, length of longest dry season, vegetation index and temperature seasonality were key variables predicting the distribution of anthrax in the region. The study generated a suitability map depicting geographical areas that can be targeted for risk-based surveillance and or control measures for the disease."	NonUS	Ecology
"Migratory connectivity is a metric of the co-occurrence of migratory animals originating from different breeding sites, and like their spatial dispersion, can vary substantially during the annual cycle. Together, both these properties affect the optimal times and sites of population censusing. We tracked taiga bean geese (Anser fabalis fabalis) during 2014-2021 to study their migratory connectivity and nonbreeding movements and determine optimal periods to assess the size of their main flyway population. We also compared available census data with tracking data, to examine how well two existing censuses covered the population. Daily Mantel's correlation between breeding and nonbreeding sites lay between 0 and 0.5 during most of the nonbreeding season, implying birds from different breeding areas were not strongly separated at other times in the annual cycle. However, the connectivity was higher among birds from the westernmost breeding areas compared to the birds breeding elsewhere. Daily Minimum Convex Polygons showed tracked birds were highly aggregated at census times, confirming their utility. The number of tracked birds absent at count sites during the censuses however exceeded numbers double-counted at several sites, indicating that censuses might have underestimated the true population size. Our results show that connectivity can vary in different times during the nonbreeding period, and should be studied throughout the annual cycle. Our results also confirm previous studies, which have found that estimates using marked individuals usually produce higher population size estimates than total counts. This should be considered when using total counts to assess population sizes in the future."	NonUS	Ecology
"Periodic oscillations between El Nino and La Nina conditions in the Pacific Basin affect oceanographic and meteorological phenomena globally, with impacts on the abundance and distribution of marine species. However, El Nino effects on estuarine hydrology and tidal wetland processes have seldom been examined rigorously. We used detailed wetland elevation and local inundation data from 10 tidal wetlands located along the Pacific coast of the United States to assess changes in flooding during the 2015-2016 El Nino and to determine decadal-scale relationships between estuarine sea-level anomalies and Pacific Basin climate indices for this region. During the 2015-2016 El Nino all sites experienced significant increases in high-tide water levels exceeding those predicted by astronomical tides, and increased flooding frequency during at least one of the El Nino subperiods relative to pre-El Nino conditions. The magnitude of positive sea-level anomalies varied by site (4-15cm), with local hot spots of high water in southern Oregon, northern California, and Pt. Mugu lagoon in the Southern California Bight. Furthermore, over the last three decades of historic tide records, there were positive relationships between high-tide sea-level anomalies and equatorial Pacific Basin sea surface temperature anomalies across the region, and negative relationships with the Northern Oscillation Index. Increases of 1 degrees C in equatorial sea surface temperature were associated with 3-5cm of increased high-tide flooding at the sites. Elevated estuarine flooding associated with future El Ninos could impact important tidal wetland processes and could be an additive stressor for wetlands facing accelerating sea-level rise. Periodic changes between El Nino and La Nina conditions in the Pacific Basin affect global weather and ocean patterns, causing changes in coastal waters that can impact plants and animals. However, few studies have focused on El Nino effects on tidal wetlands. This study identifies substantial changes to wetland flooding during the 2015-2016 El Nino event using detailed wetland elevation and local tide height data from 10 tidal wetlands located along the Pacific coast of the United States. During the 2015-2016 El Nino, all sites experienced significant increases in high-tide water levels exceeding those predicted by astronomical tides as well as increased flooding frequency during at least one part of the El Nino event. Flood height anomalies ranged from 4 to 15cm on average, with local hot spots of high water in southern Oregon, northern California, and Pt. Mugu lagoon in Southern California Bight. Tidal records show that over the last three decades, high-tide sea-level anomalies in coastal wetlands were related to two indicators of El Nino and La Nina conditions. Elevated estuarine flooding associated with future El Ninos could impact important tidal wetland ecosystems and could weaken their ability to keep pace with accelerating sea-level rise."	USA	ClimateChange
"As predators, coastal and oceanic sharks play critical roles in shaping ecosystem structure and function, but most shark species are highly susceptible to population declines. Effective management of vulnerable shark populations requires knowledge of species-specific movement and habitat use patterns. Since sharks are often highly mobile and long-lived, tracking their habitat use patterns over large spatiotemporal scales is challenging. However, the analysis of elemental tracers in vertebral cartilage can describe a continuous record of the life history of an individual from birth to death. This study examined trace elements (Li, Mg, Mn, Zn, Sr, and Ba) along vertebral transects of five shark species with unique life histories. From most freshwater-associated to most oceanic, these species include Bull Sharks (Carcharhinus leucas), Bonnethead Sharks (Sphyrna tiburo), Blacktip Sharks (Carcharhinus limbatus), Spinner Sharks (Carcharhinus brevipinna), and Shortfin Mako Sharks (Isurus oxyrinchus). Element concentrations were compared across life stages (young-of-the-year, early juvenile, late juvenile, and adult) to infer species-specific ontogenetic patterns of habitat use and movement. Many of the observed elemental patterns could be explained by known life history traits: C. leucas exhibited clear ontogenetic changes in elemental composition matching expected changes in their use of freshwater habitats over time. S. tiburo elemental composition did not differ across ontogeny, suggesting residence in estuarine/coastal regions. The patterns of elemental composition were strikingly similar between C. brevipinna and C. limbatus, suggesting they co-occur in similar habitats across ontogeny. I. oxyrinchus elemental composition was stable over time, but some ontogenetic shifts occurred that may be due to changes in migration patterns with maturation. The results presented in this study enhance our understanding of the habitat use and movement patterns of coastal and oceanic sharks, and highlights the applicability of vertebral chemistry as a tool for characterizing shark life history traits."	USA	Ecology
"Yellowfin tuna are the mainstay of the traditional tuna fisheries in St Helena waters, but there is limited knowledge of their ecology and feeding behaviour in the area. In this study yellowfin tuna stomach contents were used to assess spatio-temporal changes in feeding strategy and consider the role of tuna in the local ecosystem. Comparisons of the feeding spectra of yellowfin tuna between inshore regions of St Helena and oceanic seamounts demonstrated that in both areas the species was largely piscivorous. In inshore waters yellowfin consumed more neritic fauna, including significant numbers of crab megalopa, whereas around seamounts the diet included a greater diversity of epi- and mesopelagic fish and squids. The most important fish prey species in inshore waters was the St Helena butterflyfishChaetodon sanctahelenae, and around seamounts was the pufferfishLagocephalus lagocephalus. Results indicate that the diet spectrum of yellowfin tuna in St Helena waters is relatively similar to those of conspecifics living in waters with relatively low productivity, with strategies indicative of food-poor ecosystems. The availability of coastal fauna may make areas around islands and seamounts more attractive for feeding aggregations of yellowfin tuna, compared to the open ocean. The relatively unselective feeding of yellowfin tuna means that stomachs can provide valuable data on the species diversity, particularly in remote areas with limited opportunities for dedicated research expeditions."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Multiple studies have used species distribution models to identify human-wildlife conflict drivers. An important application of these models is spatial conflict resolution by accounting for habitat suitability and corridors. We used distribution and connectivity models to identify habitats and corridors for brown bear Ursus arctos in southwestern Iran with high risk of bear damages, and evaluated the effects of landscape composition and configuration on the predicted conflict hotspots. We used 154 locations of bear damage incidents along with a suit of predictors to develop risk models. To prepare predictive variables, we used brown bear occurrence data and a number of covariates to develop a suitability model. We then converted the suitability map into a resistance surface and used a connectivity model to predict corridors. Finally, the bear damages risk map, habitats and corridors were overlaid to prioritize conflict hotspots, corridors and habitats, and conflict-prone corridors. Proportion of suitable habitats, distance to village, density of forest patches, conservation areas and corridor bottlenecks were the main predictors contributing to bear damages risk. A total of 38.73% of habitats, and 6.24% of corridors across the 124 000-km(2) study area were identified as areas with high risk of bear damages. The risk of bear damage was also spatially associated with forests fragmentation and patchiness of habitat. Our results highlight the importance of landscape configuration and corridors when investigating the spatial patterns of bear damages. Our findings showed how the combination of distribution models and connectivity analysis can guide carnivore conservation planning aiming at reducing the risk of carnivore-inflicted damages."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"We describe a new genus and species of blood-dwelling apostome ciliate, Lynnia grapsolytica n. gen., n. sp. (Apostomatida: Colliniidae). A distinct kinety hook pattern on the tomite's posterior ventral face, coupled with its marine habitat and use of a decapod host, readily distinguishes this ciliate from all known colliniids. We detected the parasite in -12% of Pachygrapsus crassipes (Brachyura: Grapsidae) crabs in a California estuary and confirmed its presence at a Baja California rocky intertidal site. As existing methods failed to adequately stain this ciliate, we developed a new miniaturized silver carbonate impregnation staining method that produced excellent somatic and nuclear stains in all five observed cell types. A possibly unique trait is the active invagination of the tropho-tomont's anterior to form a temporary pseudocytopharynx, likely used for feeding. Histological examination revealed that the ciliate invaded and damaged skeletal muscle, the heart, connective tissues, and gonads. Survivorship analysis indicated that infected crabs experienced 2.6 times greater daily mortality than uninfected crabs. Laboratory and field experimental infection attempts failed, suggesting a complex life cycle with outsidehost development. Phylogenetic analysis at the 18S and COI loci confirmed the ciliate's placement in the Colliniidae. We emend the diagnosis of Family Colliniidae."	USA	Ecology
"The purpose of this study was to assess the relative abundance and activity patterns of terrestrial carnivorous mammals living in San Pablo de Valdes Wildlife Reserve, which is located in Peninsula Valdes (PV), Chubut province, Argentina. To this end, camera traps were placed in different plant communities of this reserve and they were used from January 2015 to December 2016. A total of 256 independent events, with a sampling effort of 1811 camera nights, were obtained. The following species were identified in order of relative abundance: Conepatus chinga, Lycalopex gymnocercus, Leopardus geoffroyi, Puma concolor, and Leopardus colocolo, and the activity patterns of the first three were estimated. Those of P. concolor and L. colocolo could not be estimated as insufficient independent events were obtained. Our results show a cathemeral activity pattern in C. chinga and L. geoffroyi and a more nocturnal pattern in L. gymnocercus. Our results highlight the need to expand the sampling area to obtain further details on the behavioral patterns and population parameters of the carnivores identified. Knowledge of ecological issues, such as relative abundance and activity patterns of carnivorous mammals, is imperative to formulate monitoring and conservation programs."	NonUS	Ecology
"Exploiting species-specific behavioural responses of fish to light is an increasingly promising technique to reduce the entrainment or impingement of fish that results from the diversion of water for human activities, such as hydropower or irrigation. Whilst there is some evidence that white light can be an effective deterrent for Chinook salmon smolts, the results have been mixed. There is a need to test the response of fish to different spectra and strobing frequencies to improve deterrent performance. We tested the movement and spatial response of groups of four fish to combinations of light-emitting diode (LED) spectra (red, green, blue and white light) during the day and night, and strobing frequencies (constant and 2Hz) during the day, using innovative LED technology intended as a behavioural guidance device for use in the field. Whilst strobing did not alter fish behaviour when compared to constant light, the red light had a repulsive effect during the day, with fish under this treatment spending significantly less time in the half of the arena closest to the behavioural guidance device compared to both the control and blue light. Importantly, this effect disappeared at night, where there were no differences in movement and space use found between spectra. There was some evidence of a potential attractive response of fish to the blue and green light during the day. Under these light treatments, fish spent the highest amount of time closest to the behavioural guidance device. Further tests manipulating the light intensity in the different spectra are needed to verify the mechanistic determinants of the observed behaviours. Results are discussed in reference to the known spectral sensitivities of the cone and rod photopigments in these fish, and further experiments are suggested to better relate the work to mitigating the effects on fish of infrastructure used for hydropower and irrigation."	USA	Technology
"To mitigate the ongoing threats to coastal ecosystems, and the biodiversity erosion they are causing, marine-protected areas (MPAs) have emerged as powerful and widespread conservation tools. Strictly no-take MPAs, also called marine reserves, undeniably promote fish biomass and density, but it remains unclear how biodiversity responds to protection. Identifying which facets of biodiversity respond to protection is critical for the management of MPAs and the development of relevant conservation strategies towards the achievement of biodiversity targets. We collected 99 environmental DNA (eDNA) samples inside and outside nine marine reserves in the Mediterranean Sea to assess the effect of protection on 11 biodiversity indicators based on fish traits, phylogeny and vulnerability to fishing. We controlled for the effect of environmental heterogeneity (habitat, bathymetry, productivity, temperature and accessibility) using a principal component analysis, and for spatial autocorrelation due to potential unmeasured factors. We found a positive and significant effect of protection on only 3 out of 11 indicators: functional and phylogenic diversity but also the ratio between demerso-pelagic and benthic species richness. Rather, total fish richness responded significantly and negatively to protection. We did not detect any significant effect of protection on threatened and elasmobranch species richness, probably due to their large home range compared to the size of Mediterranean marine reserves. Synthesis and applications: Our findings highlight the importance of looking beyond the mere number of species to fully depict and understand the effect of marine reserves on biodiversity and evaluate the effectiveness of conservation measures. Rather, we propose a dashboard of three eDNA-based indicators that can provide an early signal of ecosystem deterioration or recovery. eDNA metabarcoding offers a powerful tool to supply site-specific and standardized taxonomic-, phylogenetic- and trait-based biodiversity assessments, in complement to other classical techniques, such as visual censuses or video surveys, able to estimate species abundance but also individual life-stage and size."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Green Sturgeon (Acipenser medirostris) and White Sturgeon (A. transmontanus) are closely related species inhabiting the San Francisco Estuary (SFE) and Sacramento River. Both spawn in the Sacramento River. White Sturgeon typically remain within SFE throughout their lives while subadult and adult Green Sturgeon make marine migrations. These broad-scale patterns are known. However, the reach-specific timing of spawning migrations is not, and little is known about seasonal movements of juveniles and subadults. We tagged 41 Green and 160 White Sturgeon with acoustic transmitters (2010-2012). Analyses also included 167 previously tagged sturgeon. Over 300 receivers deployed throughout the Sacramento River, SFE, and nearshore Pacific Coast detected movements. Adult Green Sturgeon moved quickly though SFE to their spawning reach, using the mainstem through the Delta. 5% of spawning Green Sturgeon remained on the spawning reach for over 300 days. White Sturgeon spent significantly less time in their spawning reach before exiting (32 +/- 48.2 days vs. 197 +/- 97.3 days) and instead selected northern Delta sloughs over the mainstem for pre-spawning migrations. Even at earlier life stages, Green Sturgeon had more marine distributions than White Sturgeon. Juveniles and subadults of both species moved between the San Francisco Bay and Delta throughout the year, but only White Sturgeon overwintered in the Delta. Additionally, we refine several life history parameters for sturgeon in California. We provide a comprehensive characterization of Green and White Sturgeon movements within the SFE and Sacramento River across life stages. These analyses will inform reach-specific management of each species."	USA	Ecology
"Length-weight relationship (LWR) was estimated for Amblygaster indiana from Eraviputhenthurai, south-west coast of India. The fish samples were collected from March 2018 to February 2019 from the fish landing centres and fish markets of Eraviputhenthurai, Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu. Altogether, 82 specimens were collected from gill nets and shore seines during the period. The value of parameter b in the equation of LWR was estimated to be 3.36 and provides the first estimate of LWR for A. indiana. The value of the condition factor K (1.15) and relative condition factor Kn (1.003) in the present study indicates that the fish is in good condition in terms of health, growth, physical, and biological environmental conditions and there seems to be no adverse factor for A. indiana in its current habitat. The current study is also one of the first documented reports on the biological aspects of A. indiana and will be helpful for future research, conservation and sustainable management of the species."	NonUS	Fisheries
"Academic scientists who access and use biological materials are embedded in an increasingly complex arrangement of conflicting scientific, commercial, regulatory and ethical institutional logics. This paper examines how scientists navigate and respond to these conflicting institutions. Using in-depth interviews with 40 academic scientists in four fields (marine biology, entomology, agricultural studies, ecology), we undertake a grounded theory approach to identify key categories of individual responses and the drivers of those responses. We find that scientists adopt one or more of five strategies in response to regulatory pressures: acquiescence, compromise, avoidance, defiance, and manipulation. We then leverage the institutional work literature to 1) propose a scientist response framework for understanding how individuals respond to competing logics and changing regulations and 2) demonstrate how individual cognition and effort by academic scientists reconciles (or not) conflicting institutions. We outline implications for policy and practice and conclude with a discussion of future research opportunities."	USA	EthicsPolicy
"Context Biological resource use represents the most common direct threat to biodiversity. Despite this, there is a paucity of comprehensive and overarching data relating to the biological resource use. The global aquarium trade encompasses millions of individual live fishes representing thousands of marine and freshwater species traded on an annual basis. The lack of specific data systems for recording information where fish are exported or imported has resulted in limited accessible trade data. An evaluation of the data-reporting frameworks presently employed by countries engaged in the aquarium trade is warranted to better understand the means by which comprehensive data on the aquarium trade can be made more accessible. Aims This study examines the data-reporting framework of The Australian Government Department of Agriculture and Water Resources (DAWR) used to collate aquarium fish import data, and its capacity to inform on the aquarium trade biodiversity imported to Australia. Methods Aquarium import records from 2010-16 were provided by DAWR and used to determine the quantity of individual fishes and consignments imported to Australia. The potential biodiversity of imports was determined from the Australian Government's List of Permitted Live Freshwater/Marine Fish Suitable for Import 2018 (Number 69, F2017C00079), the legislative document identifying species permitted import to Australia for the aquarium trade. Species permitted import were cross-referenced with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List to address whether the Australian aquarium trade is importing threatened species. Key results A total of 10320 consignments encompassing more than 78.6 million aquarium fishes were imported to Australia between 2010 and 2016. A total of 4628 species of fishes were permitted import to Australia for the aquarium trade with 73 of the marine species (2.0%) and 81 of the freshwater species (7.5%) found to be threatened with some degree of extinction risk. The data-reporting framework for aquarium fish imports offered limited capacity to taxonomically differentiate imports and only 12.5% of all aquarium fishes imported could be identified to species. Conclusions The aquarium fish import records provided by DAWR had limited taxonomic resolution and, consequently, limited capacity to contribute to an improved understanding of the biodiversity imported to Australia for the aquarium fish trade. While more detailed information is available than is presently collated by DAWR, the availability of this information is constrained by the laws around protected information and the resources available to DAWR. Implications Accessible, detailed information on aquarium fish imports is necessary to support comprehensive research capable of addressing threats to biodiversity loss from the aquarium trade. To this end, the means by which Australian aquarium import data can be reported at greater taxonomic resolution under the existing legislative and resource restraints should be explored further."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Wildlife health is important for conservation, healthy ecosystems, sustainable development and biosecurity. It presents unique challenges for national programme governance and delivery because wildlife health not only crosses jurisdictional responsibilities and authorities but also inherently spans multiple sectors of expertise. The World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) encourages its Members to have wildlife disease monitoring and notification systems. Where national wildlife health surveillance programmes do exist, they vary in scope and size. Evidence-based guidance is lacking on the critical functions and roles needed to meet the OIE's recommendations and other expectations of a national programme. A literature review and consultation with national wildlife health programme leaders identified five key attributes of national programmes: 1) being knowledge and science based; 2) fostering cross-nation equivalence and harmonisation; 3) developing partnerships and national coordination; 4) providing leadership and administration of national efforts; and 5) capacity development. Proposed core purposes include: 1) establishment and communication of the national wildlife health status; 2) leading national planning; 3) centralising information and expertise; 4) developing national networks leading to harmonisation and collaborations; 5) developing wildlife health workforces; and 6) centralising administration and management of national programmes. A national wildlife health programme should aim to identify, effectively communicate and manage the risk to or from a country's wildlife populations. It should generate the appropriate knowledge required to improve the effectiveness of wildlife policies and systems, including identifying and assessing emerging priorities, thus facilitating early warning, preparedness and preventive actions."	NonUS	HumanWildlife
"Corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) helps to regulate tissue bioavailability of circulating glucocorticoids (GCs), and in most vertebrates, >= 80%-90% of GCs bind to this protein. New World flying squirrels have higher plasma total cortisol levels (the primary corticosteroid in sciurids) than most vertebrates. Recent research suggests that flying squirrels have either low amounts of CBG or CBG molecules that have a low binding affinity for cortisol, as this taxon appears to exhibit very low proportions of cortisol bound to CBG. To test whether CBG levels have been adjusted over evolutionary time, we assessed the levels of this protein in the plasma of northern (Glaucomys sabrinus (Shaw, 1801)) and southern (Glaucomys volans (Linnaeus, 1758)) flying squirrels using immunoblotting, and compared the relative levels among three phylogenetically related species of sciurids. We also compared the pattern of CBG levels with cortisol levels for the same individuals. Flying squirrels had higher cortisol levels than the other species, but similar levels of CBG to their closest relatives (tree squirrels). We conclude that CBG levels in flying squirrels have not been adjusted over evolutionary time, and thus, the uncoupling of CBG levels from cortisol concentrations may represent an evolutionary modification in the lineage leading to New World flying squirrels."	NonUS	Genetics
"Anthropogenic radionuclides can enter water bodies through accidental or controlled discharges. In order to assess their potential impact, understanding the link between exposure, tissue specific bioaccumulation and radiation dose rate, to biological or biomarker responses in aquatic biota is required. Adopting an integrated, multi-biomarker, multi-species approach, we have investigated potential biological responses induced by short-lived radionuclide, phosphorus-32 (P-32, radiophosphorus) in two ecologically important mussel species, the freshwater Dreissena polymorpha (DP) and marine Mytilus galloprovincialis (MG). Adult individuals were exposed to P-32 for 10 days, to acquire nominal whole-body average dose rates of 0.10, 1 and 10 mGy d(-1), which encompass a screening value of 10 mu Gy h(-1) (0.24 mGy d(-1)), in accordance with the ERICA tool. Following exposure, a suite of genotoxic biomarkers (DNA damage, gamma-H2AX induction and micronucleus [MN] formation) were measured in gill and digestive gland tissues, along with transcriptional expression of selected stress-related genes in both the species (i.e. hsp70/90, sod, cat and gst). Our results demonstrate the relationship between tissue specific dosimetry, where P-32 induced a dose-dependent increase, and biological responses independent of species. Gene expression analysis revealed little significant variation across species or tissues. Overall, MG appeared to be more sensitive to short-term damage (i.e. high DNA damage and gamma-H2AX induction), particularly in digestive gland. This study contributes to limited knowledge on the transfer and biological impact of radionuclides within differing aquatic systems on a tissue specific level, aiding the development of adequate management and protective strategies."	NonUS	Ecology
"Chemolithotrophic bacteria capable of extracellular electron uptake to drive energy metabolism and CO2 fixation are known as electroautotrophs. The recently described order Tenderiales contains the uncultivated electroautotroph Ca. Tenderia electrophaga. The Ca. Tenderia electrophaga genome contains genes proposed to make up a previously undescribed extracellular electron uptake pathway. Electromicrobiology can be used to understand extracellular electron uptake in previously undescribed chemolithotrophs. Enrichment and characterization of the uncultivated electroautotroph Candidatus Tenderia electrophaga using electromicrobiology led to the designation of the order Tenderiales. Representative Tenderiales metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) have been identified in a number of environmental surveys, yet a comprehensive characterization of conserved genes for extracellular electron uptake has thus far not been conducted. Using comparative genomics, we identified conserved orthologous genes within the Tenderiales and nearest-neighbor orders important for extracellular electron uptake based on a previously proposed pathway from Ca. Tenderia electrophaga. The Tenderiales contained a conserved cluster we designated uetABCDEFGHIJ, which encodes proteins containing features that would enable transport of extracellular electrons to cytoplasmic membrane-bound energy-transducing complexes such as two conserved cytochrome cbb(3) oxidases. For example, UetJ is predicted to be an extracellular undecaheme c-type cytochrome that forms a heme wire. We also identified clusters of genes predicted to facilitate assembly and maturation of electron transport proteins, as well as cellular attachment to surfaces. Autotrophy among the Tenderiales is supported by the presence of carbon fixation and stress response pathways that could allow cellular growth by extracellular electron uptake. Key differences between the Tenderiales and other known neutrophilic iron oxidizers were revealed, including very few Cyc2 genes in the Tenderiales. Our results reveal a possible conserved pathway for extracellular electron uptake and suggest that the Tenderiales have an ecological role in coupling metal or mineral redox chemistry and the carbon cycle in marine and brackish sediments. IMPORTANCE Chemolithotrophic bacteria capable of extracellular electron uptake to drive energy metabolism and CO2 fixation are known as electroautotrophs. The recently described order Tenderiales contains the uncultivated electroautotroph Ca. Tenderia electrophaga. The Ca. Tenderia electrophaga genome contains genes proposed to make up a previously undescribed extracellular electron uptake pathway. Here, we use comparative genomics to show that this pathway is well conserved among Tenderiales spp. recovered by metagenome-assembled genomes. This conservation extends to near neighbors of the Tenderiales but not to other well-studied chemolithotrophs, including iron and sulfur oxidizers, indicating that these genes may be useful markers of growth using insoluble extracellular electron donors. Our findings suggest that extracellular electron uptake and electroautotrophy may be pervasive among the Tenderiales, and the geographic locations from which metagenome-assembled genomes were recovered offer clues to their natural ecological niche."	USA	Ecology
"Assessing the impact of global changes and protection effectiveness is a key step in monitoring marine fishes. Most traditional census methods are demanding or destructive. Nondisturbing and nonlethal approaches based on video and environmental DNA are alternatives to underwater visual census or fishing. However, their ability to detect multiple biodiversity factors beyond traditional taxonomic diversity is still unknown. For bony fishes and elasmobranchs, we compared the performance of eDNA metabarcoding and long-term remote video to assess species' phylogenetic and functional diversity. We used 10 eDNA samples from 30 L of water each and 25 hr of underwater videos over 4 days on Malpelo Island (pacific coast of Colombia), a remote marine protected area. Metabarcoding of eDNA detected 66% more molecular operational taxonomic units (MOTUs) than species on video. We found 66 and 43 functional entities with a single eDNA marker and videos, respectively, and higher functional richness for eDNA than videos. Despite gaps in genetic reference databases, eDNA also detected a higher fish phylogenetic diversity than videos; accumulation curves showed how 1 eDNA transect detected as much phylogenetic diversity as 25 hr of video. Environmental DNA metabarcoding can be used to affordably, efficiently, and accurately census biodiversity factors in marine systems. Although taxonomic assignments are still limited by species coverage in genetic reference databases, use of MOTUs highlights the potential of eDNA metabarcoding once reference databases have expanded."	NonUS	Technology
"Understanding how human modification of the landscape shapes vertebrate community composition is vital to understanding the current status and future trajectory of wildlife. Using a participatory approach, we deployed the largest camera-trap network in Mesoamerica to date to investigate how anthropogenic disturbance shapes the occupancy and co-occurrence of terrestrial vertebrate species in a tropical biodiversity hotspot: the Osa Peninsula, Costa Rica. We estimated species richness in different categories of land protection with rarefaction analysis and estimated the expected occupancy with a joint species distribution model that included covariates for anthropogenic disturbance, land protection, habitat quality, and habitat availability. Areas with the most stringent land-use protections (e.g., Corcovado National Park, 24 species [95% CI 23-25]) harbored significantly more species than unprotected areas (20 species [19.7-20.3]), mainly due to a reduced presence of large-bodied species of conservation concern in unprotected areas (e.g., jaguar Panthera onca and white-lipped peccary Tayassu pecari). Small-bodied generalist species, such as opossums (Didelphidae) and armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus), in contrast, were more common at disturbed sites, resulting in a significant difference in vertebrate community composition between sites with low and high disturbance. Co-occurrence of species was also mainly associated with response to disturbance. Similar responses to disturbance create two groups of species, those whose site-level occupancy usually increased as anthropogenic disturbance increased and those whose estimated occupancy decreased. The absence of large-bodied species entails an important loss of ecological function in disturbed areas and can hinder forest development and maintenance. Efforts to protect and restore forested landscapes are likely having a positive effect on the abundance of some threatened species. These efforts, however, must be sustained and expanded to increase connectivity and ensure the long-term viability of the wildlife community."	NonUS	Ecology
"Policies aiming to preserve vegetated coastal ecosystems (VCE; tidal marshes, mangroves and seagrasses) to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions require national assessments of blue carbon resources. Here, we present organic carbon (C) storage in VCE across Australian climate regions and estimate potential annual CO2 emission benefits of VCE conservation and restoration. Australia contributes 5-11% of the C stored in VCE globally (70-185 Tg C in aboveground biomass, and 1,055-1,540 Tg C in the upper 1 m of soils). Potential CO2 emissions from current VCE losses are estimated at 2.1-3.1 Tg CO2-e yr(-1), increasing annual CO2 emissions from land use change in Australia by 12-21%. This assessment, the most comprehensive for any nation to-date, demonstrates the potential of conservation and restoration of VCE to underpin national policy development for reducing greenhouse gas emissions."	NonUS	ClimateChange
"Comparison of the molecular diversity in all plankton populations present in geographically distant water columns may allow for a holistic view of the connectivity, isolation and adaptation of organisms in the marine environment. In this context, a large-scale detection and analysis of genomic variants directly in metagenomic data appeared as a powerful strategy for the identification of genetic structures and genes under natural selection in plankton. Here, we used discosnp++, a reference-free variant caller, to produce genetic variants from large-scale metagenomic data and assessed its accuracy on the copepod Oithona nana in terms of variant calling, allele frequency estimation and population genomic statistics by comparing it to the state-of-the-art method. discosnp ++ produces variants leading to similar conclusions regarding the genetic structure and identification of loci under natural selection. discosnp++ was then applied to 120 metagenomic samples from four size fractions, including prokaryotes, protists and zooplankton sampled from 39 tara Oceans sampling stations located in the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea to produce a new set of marine genomic markers containing more than 19 million of variants. This new genomic resource can be used by the community to relocate these markers on their plankton genomes or transcriptomes of interest. This resource will be updated with new marine expeditions and the increase of metagenomic data (availability: )."	NonUS	Genetics
"Context. Understanding what constitutes high-quality habitat for threatened species is critical for conservation management planning. The endangered northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus) has experienced an uneven range contraction among habitat types. Once common across multiple habitats of northern mainland Australia, declining populations have now contracted to rocky escarpments. Aim. The island refuge of Groote Eylandt, Northern Territory, Australia, has not experienced the declines as seen on mainland Australia. Here, northern quolls persist in both rocky escarpment and savanna woodland, which provides a rare opportunity to investigate the habitat quality of rocky escarpments and savanna woodland for the northern quoll. Methods. Northern quolls (n = 111) were trapped in both rocky escarpment (n = 61) and savanna woodland (n = 50) habitats before the breeding season (May). We conducted body condition assessment, scat analysis, and measured trophic niche breadth of individuals occupying each habitat type. Key results. Female quolls occupying rocky escarpments exhibited a lower body condition than did quolls occupying savanna woodland. Quolls from rocky escarpments consumed a significantly higher proportion of mammals and fed within a narrower dietary niche than did those occupying savanna woodland. Conclusions. Quolls had adapted to the dietary resources available within each habitat type, suggesting that the lack of quolls in savanna woodland on the mainland is due to factors other than availability of dietary resources. Implications. Groote Eylandt is of critical conservation significance, where high numbers of northern quolls exist in both rocky escarpment and savanna woodland habitats. For population viability on the mainland, managing threats such as feral predators and inappropriate fire regimes in savanna woodland, particularly those surrounding rocky escarpment, should be prioritised."	NonUS	Conservation
"The phytal environment is a complex system that involves the association between marine organisms and macroalgae. In this paper, we investigate the diversity of bivalves associated with macroalgae on the continental shelf between the states of Alagoas and Bahia, including Sergipe, in northeastern Brazil. Macroalgae and associated fauna were collected during two sampling campaigns under the MARSEAL project (February and July 2011 [dry and rainy seasons, respectively]), covering 24 stations and three isobaths (10, 25 and 50 m). The following ecological descriptors were calculated: abundance (N), richness (S), diversity (H) and evenness (J). A total of 1384 individuals from 20 families, 28 genera and 44 species were obtained. Arcidae was the most abundant group, followed by the families Pteriidae and Mytilidae. The most abundant species were Arca zebra, Anadara sp. 1 and Pinctada imbricata, representing 71% of the total abundance. The families Arcidae, Corbulidae and Mytilidae were considered constant, as they occurred in more than 50% of the samples. A higher abundance was recorded during the rainy season. No seasonal differences were found regarding S, H' or J. Richness increased with increasing depth, whereas the other indices (N, H' and J) were not influenced by bathymetry. This reveals that the 50 m isobath has a greater support capacity and houses richer, more diverse fauna. Bivalve richness and composition data from this study expand the information on mollusk biodiversity associated with the phytal environment on the continental shelf off northeastern Brazil."	NonUS	Ecology
"The world's ecosystems are altered to different extents by anthropogenic activities. Marine habitats, especially coastal areas, are subjected to an increasing pressure derived from human activities on both land and ocean. Information about species distribution is fundamental to develop effective conservation and management measures and counteract negative anthropogenic impacts. The present work explores the use of species distribution models by using the Environmental Niche Factor Analysis (ENFA) to assess the habitat suitability of common dolphins (Delphinus delphis) in Northwest Spain, and its application to the development of effective conservation and management measures. The relationship between presence-only data and ecogeographical variables (EGV) was used to assess the potential distribution of the species. Data was collected during 273 days at sea, covering a total distance of 9 417 km between March 2014 and October 2017 with a total of 91 common dolphin encounters. This study shows that tide level and sea surface salinity are the main EGVs driving the distribution of the species in coastal areas especially in waters above the continental shelf. Additionally, this study reveals the most suitable habitats for common dolphin and outlines the need to develop conservation measures and management plans to promote the protection of this species. Findings of the study contribute to a more accurate and comprehensive understanding of the common dolphin distribution and emphasize the importance of species distribution models in the development of effective conservation and management strategies."	NonUS	Conservation
"Microbes can play a prominent role in the evolution of their hosts, facilitating adaptation to various environments and promoting ecological divergence. The Wave and Crab ecotypes of the intertidal snail Littorina saxatilis is an evolutionary model of rapid and repeated adaptation to environmental gradients. While patterns of genomic divergence of the Littorina ecotypes along the shore gradients have been extensively studied, their microbiomes have been so far overlooked. The aim of the present study is to start filling this gap by comparing gut microbiome composition of the Wave and Crab ecotypes using metabarcoding approach. Since Littorina snails are micro-grazers feeding on the intertidal biofilm, we also compare biofilm composition (i.e. typical snail diet) in the crab and wave habitats. In the results, we found that bacterial and eukaryotic biofilm composition varies between the typical habitats of the ecotypes. Further, the snail gut bacteriome was different from outer environments, being dominated by Gammaproteobacteria, Fusobacteria, Bacteroidia and Alphaproteobacteria. There were clear differences in the gut bacterial communities between the Crab and the Wave ecotypes as well as between the Wave ecotype snails from the low and high shores. These differences were both observed in the abundances and in the presence of different bacteria, as well as at different taxonomic level, from bacterial OTU's to families. Altogether, our first insights show that Littorina snails and their associated bacteria are a promising marine system to study co-evolution of the microbes and their hosts, which can help us to predict the future for wild species in the face of rapidly changing marine environments."	NonUS	Ecology
"The salt marsh harvest mouse (SMHM; Reithrodontomys raviventris) is a state and federally listed endangered species endemic to the coastal marshes of the San Francisco Estuary of California. Of two subspecies, the southern (R. r. raviventris) is most endangered and lacks reliable morphological field tools to distinguish from the sympatric western harvest mouse (WHM; R. megalotis). We trapped and collected genetic samples and morphological data from 204 harvest mice from 14 locations from across the range of the southern SMHM. Genetic species identification indicated these to be composed of 48 SMHM and 156 WHM, which we compared at ten morphological characters. Most continuous characters overlapped between species. Color characters were significantly differentiated and we identified a number of species-specific diagnostic pelage categories in both species. A random forest analysis indicated that ventral coloration of the abdomen and the ventral tail hair color were the most useful for differentiating between species. We used these two morphological characters to develop a decision tree which correctly classified 94% of harvest mice to species with 99% accuracy. These findings suggest that our decision tree can be used to reliably identify the species of most harvest mice in the range of the southern SMHM, with a small proportion (6% in our study) needing genetic confirmation. The decision tree should be tested on additional harvest mice that were not used in its development, particularly from novel locations across the range."	USA	Genetics
"The Earth's ecosystems are under unprecedented pressure, yet the nature of contemporary biodiversity change is not well understood. Growing evidence that community size is regulated highlights the need for improved understanding of community dynamics. As stability in community size could be underpinned by marked temporal turnover, a key question is the extent to which changes in both biodiversity dimensions (temporal alpha- and temporal beta-diversity) covary within and among the assemblages that comprise natural communities. Here, we draw on a multi-assemblage dataset (encompassing vertebrates, invertebrates, and unicellular plants) from a tropical freshwater ecosystem and employ a cyclic shift randomization to assess whether any directional change in temporal alpha-diversity and temporal beta-diversity exceeds baseline levels. In the majority of cases, alpha-diversity remains stable over the 5-y time frame of our analysis, with little evidence for systematic change at the community level. In contrast, temporal beta-diversity changes are more prevalent, and the two diversity dimensions are decoupled at both the within-and among-assemblage level. Consequently, a pressing research challenge is to establish how turnover supports regulation and when elevated temporal beta-diversity jeopardizes community integrity."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"The whale shark Rhincodon typus was uplisted to 'Endangered' in the 2016 IUCN Red List due to >50% population decline, largely caused by continued exploitation in the Indo-Pacific. Though the Philippines protected the whale shark in 1998, concerns remain due to continued take in regional waters. In light of this, understanding the movements of whale sharks in the Philippines, one of the most important hotspots for the species, is vital. We tagged 17 juvenile whale sharks with towed SPOT5 tags from three general areas in the Sulu and Bohol Seas: Panaon Island in Southern Leyte, northern Mindanao, and Tubbataha Reefs Natural Park (TRNP). The sharks all remained in Philippine waters for the duration of tracking (6-126 days, mean 64). Individuals travelled 86-2,580 km (mean 887 km) at a mean horizontal speed of 15.5 +/- 13.0 SD km day(-1). Whale sharks tagged in Panaon Island and Mindanao remained close to shore but still spent significant time off the shelf (>200 m). Sharks tagged at TRNP spent most of their time offshore in the Sulu Sea. Three of twelve whale sharks tagged in the Bohol Sea moved through to the Sulu Sea, whilst two others moved east through the Surigao Strait to the eastern coast of Leyte. One individual tagged at TRNP moved to northern Palawan, and subsequently to the eastern coast of Mindanao in the Pacific Ocean. Based on inferred relationships with temperature histograms, whale sharks performed most deep dives (>200 m) during the night, in contrast to results from whale sharks elsewhere. While all sharks stayed in national waters, our results highlight the high mobility of juvenile whale sharks and demonstrate their connectivity across the Sulu and Bohol Seas, highlighting the importance of the area for this endangered species."	NonUS	Conservation
"Citizen science has been touted as an effective means to collect large-scale data while engaging the public. We demonstrate that children as young as 9 years old can collect valuable mammal monitoring data using camera traps while connecting with nature and learning through their own scientific discoveries. Indian, Kenyan, Mexican, and American students used camera traps near their schools and detected 13-37 species, all of which were verified by professionals. These data describe rich mammal faunas near schools, sometimes surpassing nearby protected areas, and included five endangered species. Ninety-four percent of the camera traps were set in accordance with scientific protocols, and the teachers reported the experience as highly engaging for their students. Furthermore, the generated photos and results had community-wide impacts involving local politicians, community members, and the media. We show that children can run sensors to contribute valid scientific data important for conservation and research."	USA	Conservation
"The range of ecological interactions of the boto (Inia geoffrensis), an obligate freshwater dolphin of South America, is poorly known. We describe a new interaction between botos and small candiru catfish (genus Ochmacanthus), and their possible relationships. Candirus were photographed on at least 29 different botos. The minimum number of candirus per boto varied greatly from 1 to >230 (mean = 16.3, SD = 39.4, mode = 1). Our observations showed that candiru-boto interactions occur commonly year-round. Two types of ecological interaction may be occurring: parasitism (trophic) or phoresy (nontrophic). Although candirus are generally known as parasites, the candiru-boto relationship does not appear to fulfill several characteristics of a typical parasitic interaction. Thus, the candiru-boto relationship is most likely phoretic in nature. A shift in candiru trophic strategy may occur depending on the victim (botos or fish) and on the spatial scale, and human activities may influence the nature of these complex ecological interactions."	NonUS	Ecology
"Invasive species can cause population declines and extinctions of native species through several mechanisms including predation and competition. One such species, western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), is an invasive, aggressive predator and competitor of numerous freshwater species around the world that has caused precipitous declines of native species. The Barrens topminnow (Fundulus julisia) is a spring-endemic fish of the south-eastern U.S.A., and the western mosquitofish limits its recruitment via predation of smaller individuals but there is also potential for competition (i.e. interference competition) between the species in laboratory trials. All of these negative interactions probably contribute to the Barrens topminnow's precipitous decline since the 1980s and the listing of the species as endangered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in late 2019. Ongoing conservation measures for Barrens topminnow include long-term monitoring of populations and reintroductions through stocking of hatchery-reared individuals into numerous sites. Here, we investigate trends in Barrens topminnow and western mosquitofish occupancy and abundance over an 8-year period (three or four generations for Barrens topminnow) and assess the effectiveness of a stocking programme. We also included habitat covariates including distance to the nearest downstream confluence, stream order, and habitat size. Our findings revealed significant range-wide Barrens topminnow declines in both occupancy and abundance were occurring over the 8-year period. These declines were associated with the presence of western mosquitofish. Overall, the stocking programme of hatchery-reared individuals did not significantly enhance or restore populations of Barrens topminnow but had a negative effect on topminnow abundance when western mosquitofish were present. The lack of a positive effect of stocking hatchery-reared individuals on Barrens topminnow populations and the long-term population declines of Barrens topminnow suggest that propagation and stocking alone are not effective at creating self-sustaining populations of the Barrens topminnow. The presence of western mosquitofish does not currently appear to be compatible with long-term persistence of topminnow populations. Moving forward, conservation strategies will be needed to create and maintain mosquitofish-free habitats, which may include eradication of mosquitofish, construction of barriers, or other actions."	USA	Conservation
"Surrogates are a potential solution to the often-cited problem of there being insufficient information for biodiversity assessments or conservation planning. Cross-taxon surrogacy is the ability of a group of well-known taxa to represent variation in other poorly known taxa. To date, tests of the effectiveness of cross-taxon surrogacy in marine environments have yielded variable results and a significant qualification to the outcomes of tests that have demonstrated surrogacy is the near absence of tests for its persistence through time. This study tested for cross-taxon surrogacy and its persistence through time for three surrogates (crustaceans, molluscs, polychaetes). We used data on biodiversity variables and species assemblages of the surrogates and their targets that had been collected during multiple sampling events over 2.5 years in two habitats (seagrass, unvegetated sediment) in a large bay in south-eastern Australia. We tested surrogacy by fitting a series of linear models using generalized least squares for biodiversity variables and by Mantel tests of dissimilarity matrices of species assemblages. We also tested whether the type of data transformation affected Mantel tests. We found that each of the groups were effective surrogates for some but not all biodiversity variables (with molluscs or polychaetes being effective surrogates for species richness in both habitats), that none of the groups were effective surrogates for species assemblages, and that the outcomes of Mantel tests of dissimilarity matrices of surrogates and their targets were unaffected by the data transformation used. We conclude that while our results for surrogacy for biodiversity variables are promising the inconsistent results from other studies argues for caution about their application beyond the area and context in which they were assessed. The lack of evidence that we found for surrogates of species assemblages, and similar lack of evidence from other studies, suggests that assemblage-level surrogates are unlikely to be useful in biodiversity surveys."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"Most organisms reproduce seasonally, including most species of marine invertebrates that live across wide ranges in habitat, depth and environmental conditions. We asked: What ultimately selects for seasonal reproduction in benthic marine invertebrates with planktotrophic larvae (characteristic of >= 70% of marine invertebrates)? We hypothesized that seasonal variation in food available for the larvae ultimately selects for timing of adult reproduction. Testing this hypothesis requires a whole life cycle perspective and approach. Using a known proximate cue, daylength, we shifted gametogenesis in the laboratory by six months in a seasonally breeding temperate sea star, the Ochre Star Pisaster ochraceus (Brandt 1835). We were then able to induce spawning, fertilize gametes and culture resulting embryos in vitro to produce feeding larvae six months out of phase with natural photoperiod. We field-reared these out-of-season larvae, similarly produced in-season conspecifics and similar larvae of an aseasonally breeding asteroid, the Bat Star Patiria miniata (Brandt 1835) in mesh-covered flow-through containers that were deployed in seasonally contrasting oceanographic conditions reflecting different productivity regimes and larval food availability in spring and fall. Larval development and survival were similar between seasons: for example, planktonic larval duration was 48 d to first metamorphosis in spring vs. 45 d in fall for P. ochraceus. Hence, temporal variation in available phytoplankton may not be an ultimate selection factor acting on these larvae to regulate timing of seasonal reproduction in the adults. Alternatively, in this and other species of marine invertebrates, selection acting on early benthic juveniles or other life stages may determine the timing of adult reproduction."	USA	Ecology
"Identifying hotspots of biological diversity is a key step in conservation prioritisation. Melanesia-centred on the vast island of New Guinea-is increasingly recognised for its exceptionally species-rich and endemic biota. Here we show that Melanesia has the world's most diverse insular amphibian fauna, with over 7% of recognised global frog species in less than 0.7% of the world's land area, and over 97% of species endemic. We further estimate that nearly 200 additional candidate species have been discovered but remain unnamed, pointing to a total fauna in excess of 700 species. Nearly 60% of the Melanesian frog fauna is in a lineage of direct-developing microhylids characterised by smaller distributions than co-occurring frog families, suggesting lineage-specific high beta diversity is a key driver of Melanesian anuran megadiversity. A comprehensive conservation status assessment further highlights geographic concentrations of recently described range-restricted threatened taxa that warrant urgent conservation actions. Nonetheless, by world standards, the Melanesian frog fauna is relatively intact, with 6% of assessed species listed as threatened and no documented extinctions; and thus it provides an unparalleled opportunity to understand and conserve a megadiverse and relatively intact insular biota. Melanesia, centred on the vast tropical island of New Guinea, is shown to have the most diverse and intact insular frog fauna in the world."	NonUS	Biodiversity
"In recent decade, aquaculture species, including fish are under danger from bio-aggressors like viruses, bacteria, parasites and fungi. These organisms harm either spontaneously or through aquatic animal husbandry practices or both. The chemicals employed in aquaculture are drugs like antibiotics used to treat diseases, chemicals introduced through construction materials and hormones used to alter the reproductive viability, sex and growth rates. Drugs used to treat disease are the most dangerous to the fish. These persistent antibiotics tend to increase antibiotic-resistant free-living bacteria, thereby altering the composition of normal marine and freshwater bacterial flora. Evidence suggests that these antibiotic-resistant organisms in the marine environment will, in turn, pass their antibiotic resistance genes to other bacteria including human and animal pathogens. Antibiotic treatment in aquaculture is achieved by medicated baths and medicated food. In both cases, the probability exists for antibiotics to pass into the environment, affecting wildlife, remaining in the environment for extended periods of time and exerting their antibiotic effects to human. In this manner, potential alterations of the diversity of the marine microbiota produced by antibiotics may alter the homeostasis of the marine environment and affect complex forms of life including fish, shellfish, marine mammals, and human beings. The contamination of surface waters with antimicrobials has become an increasing public health concern because of the emergence of multi-resistant pathogens. Efforts to make progress on these issues require us to raise, confront and enact some difficult ethical decisions that will affect the living standard of human. Nevertheless, excessive antibiotic use in aquaculture should be of high concern to the aquaculture industry and its regulators, to public officials dealing with human and animal health and with the preservation of the environment, and to non-governmental organizations dealing with these issues."	NonUS	EthicsPolicy
"Automatic Identification Systems (AIS) are collision avoidance devices used on-board both commercial and leisure craft. These systems report the position, track and speed of the vessel through Very High Frequency radio transmissions which are accessible to any suitable receiver. This paper explores the potential to use MS data to inform small scale fisheries management and marine spatial planning. First, the propagation and reception of the line of sight MS transmissions was modelled around the coast of Scotland to identify areas where the use of AIS may be compromised. Using open source Geographic Information System and relational database software, computationally efficient methods of processing and analysing AIS data were explored. Three months of AIS data derived from 274 Scottish small scale fishing vessels were used to provide spatio-temporal analyses of trip duration and distance travelled, location of fishing activities, and vessel dependency on fishing grounds. The coverage, opportunities and challenges of using AIS are discussed together with broader applications and future developments."	NonUS	Technology
"We examined geographic patterns of diversification in the highly impacted San Joaquin kangaroo rat, Dipodomys nitratoides, throughout its range in the San Joaquin Valley and adjacent basins in central California. The currently recognized subspecies were distinct by the original set of mensural and color variables used in their formal diagnoses, although the Fresno kangaroo rat (D. n. exilis) is the most strongly differentiated with sharp steps in character clines relative to the adjacent Tipton (D. n. nitratoides) and short-nosed (D. n. brevinasus) races. The latter two grade more smoothly into one another but still exhibit independent, and different, character clines within themselves. At the molecular level, as delineated by mtDNA cytochrome b sequences, most population samples retain high levels of diversity despite significant retraction in the species range and severe fragmentation of local populations in recent decades due primarily to landscape conversion for agriculture and secondarily to increased urbanization. Haplotype apportionment bears no relationship to morphologically defined subspecies boundaries. Rather, a haplotype network is shallow, most haplotypes are single-step variants, and the time to coalescence is substantially more recent than the time of species split between D. nitratoides and its sister taxon, D. merriami. The biogeographic history of the species within the San Joaquin Valley appears tied to mid-late Pleistocene expansion following significant drying of the valley resulting from the rain shadow produced by uplift of the Central Coastal Ranges."	USA	Genetics
"The species-rich, megophryid frog genus Leptobrachella Smith, 1925 is distributed throughout the uplands of mainland Southeast Asia but is conspicuously absent from the Cardamom Mountains of southwestern Cambodia, where it has been known only by a single, undetermined metamorphic specimen collected nearly two decades ago. We report two adult female specimens of Leptobrachella collected a decade later at a second locality in the Cardamom Mountains and use mitochondria) DNA, nuclear DNA, and morphology to show that it represents a distinct species. Leptobrachella neangi sp. nov., named after its collector, is most closely related in mitochondria' and nuclear DNA to L. fuliginosa (Matsui, 2006) and L. melanoleuca (Matsui, 2006) from western Thailand, but has uncorrected pairwise distances of 8.69-10.99% in a mitochondrial 16S gene fragment from its two sister species. The new species is also readily distinguished from these and other congeners by having the combination of (1) SVL 35.4-36.3 mm in two adult females, (2) distinct dorsolateral glandular line absent, (2) belly transparent, immaculate purplish gray in life, creamy white in preservative, (3) dark inguinal blotch absent, (4) tympanum with black coloration extending from line under supratympanic fold, (5) dorsal skin with small, irregular bumps and ridges, and (6) iris coppery orange around pupil, fading to gold at periphery, not distinctly bicolored. The new species is the first named Leptobrachella from the Cardamom Mountains and the third from Cambodia."	USA	Genetics
"ContextMany wildlife populations exist outside of protected areas, and it is necessary to understand how these animals use a landscape mosaic that includes humans. Patterns of landscapeuse in space and time can help inform strategies to mitigate negative interactions between people and wildlife.ObjectivesWe aimed to estimate the landscape utilization of elephants where they ranged through a mosaic of human-modified land-use and undisturbed habitat to better understand spatial implications for human-wildlife interactions.MethodsWe studied locations and utilization distributions of ten bull elephants in the Western Okavango Panhandle region of Botswana. We calculated utilization distributions, patterns of landscape use, and daily movement relative to permanent water and human land-use.ResultsThe annual distributions of the monitored elephants ranged from 1220 to 3446 km(2) and showed seasonal variation, with wet season distributions being significantly larger than dry season distributions. On average 49.4% of elephants' core distributions in the dry season and 12.3% in the wet season fell within 5km of human land-use. Elephants ranged increasingly farther from permanent water sources as the wet season progressed, while in the same time frame elephants moved closer on average to human land-use. Elephants were more likely to be near human land-use during the night than they were during the day. Diel patterns of elephant proximity to human land-use did not match patterns of proximity to water.ConclusionsConservation and management efforts must consider the diel and seasonal patterns of elephant movement in order to fully address the issue of human-elephant interactions."	USA	HumanWildlife
"The Atlantic-Gaspesie caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) population is a small isolated relict herd considered endangered according to the Canadian Species at Risk Act (SARA). This population has low recruitment and survival rates but the potential role of parasites on individual fitness is unknown. In this context, we explored the parasite status of this population with the aim of 1) assessing the occurrence and intensity of parasite infections and the spatial, temporal and individual variations, 2) quantifying parasite richness and investigating factors such as sex and host body condition that may be associated with this variable and 3) evaluating the effects of parasite infections on survival in the Atlantic-Gaspesie caribou population. We examined fecal samples from 32 animals captured in 2013-2014 for eggs, oocysts and larvae of parasites and detected 7 parasite species: dorsalspined larvae protostrongylids, presumably Parelaphostrongylus andersoni based on PCR identification of a subset, Nematodirus odocoilei and other unidentified Strongyles, Trichuris sp., Capillaria sp., Moniezia sp. and Eimeria sp. For each caribou, mean parasite species richness was 1.8 +/- 1.1 (SD). Sex, body condition, year and capture location did not explain parasite prevalence, intensity of infection or richness except for intensity of infection of Capillaria sp. that was positively influenced by body condition. Parasites did not influence survival although mortality was higher for males than for females. We suggest that the relatively low and common gastrointestinal and protostrongylid parasite infections will not be a short-term threat leading to extinction."	NonUS	Ecology
"Shade coffee has shown great promise in providing crucial habitats for biodiversity outside formal protected areas. Insectivorous bats have been understudied in coffee, although they may provide pest control services. We investigated the influence of local and landscapelevel features of coffee farms on aerial insectivorous bats in Chikmagalur district in the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot, India. Bats were monitored in 20 farm sites using ultrasound detectors, and the response of bat species richness and activity to changes in tree density, proportion of built-up area in the neighborhood, and distance of farm from forest areas quantified. We examined if models built to explain the species richness and activity could also predict them in nine additional sites. We detected nine phonic types/species in the study area. The quantified predictors had no effect on assemblage-level species richness and activity of bats. Responses of edge-space and cluttered-space forager guilds mirrored those of the overall assemblage, but some species vulnerable to forest conversion like Rhinolophus beddomei were detected rarely. Best models explained up to 20% and 15% variation in assemblage-level species richness and activity respectively, and were poor predictors of both response variables. We conclude that coffee farms in our study area offer an important commuting space for insectivorous bats across a gradient of shade management. Further research should include species-specific responses to management decisions for at-risk species and quantification of ecosystem services like natural pest control to inform biodiversity conservation initiatives in the Western Ghats coffee landscapes."	NonUS	Ecology
"Seabirds allocate different amounts of energy to reproduction throughout the breeding season, depending on the trade-off between their own needs and those of their chicks and/or changes in environmental conditions. Provisioning parents therefore modulate their foraging behaviour and diet accordingly. However, for diving seabirds, many studies have extrapolated from individuals monitored over a short period and then assumed the observed patterns were representative of the birds' foraging activity over the entire breeding stage/season. To address this shortcoming, we monitored continuously the diving performance of ten male little penguins from incubation to chick fledging. Simultaneously, isotopic composition was examined using delta N-15 and delta C-13 values from whole blood samples collected every 3 weeks. Birds dived more frequently but performed shallower and shorter dives as the season progressed. The guard period was especially different, with birds spending a consistently smaller proportion of time at the bottom and performing fewer prey pursuits, compared to other periods. Isotopic composition varied less within the season, although there was a slight tendency for delta N-15 values to decrease through time. Finally, isotopic values were highly repeatable within individuals, suggesting that individuals specialized on different prey and in different areas. Diving was less repeatable within individuals but still explained a small but significant part of the variance in blood isotopic values. Our results suggest that it is important to take into account individual variability over the course of the breeding season, as well as timing of bio-logger deployment within a stage when designing bio-logging studies."	NonUS	Ecology
"Dryland agriculture has extensive impacts on surrounding ecosystems through its unintentional provision of food and water resources to local wildlife. We analyzed the response of a predator community of jackals, wolves and foxes to land-management choices, and how that response in turn affects native gazelles and Acacia vegetation in the Arava Valley of Israel. This hyperarid region is characterized by contrasting regimes comprising privatized (Moshavim) and communal (Kibbutzim) agricultural settlements, which provides ideal conditions for evaluating how land-management differences translate into crop choices, affecting resource availability and ecosystem changes. Integrating multi-year field observations of predators and gazelles with agricultural datasets, we show that shifts in land-use strategies have cascading ecological impacts. This is evident in the association of date orchards, an expanding land use especially in Kibbutzim, with shifts in the geographical and seasonal distributions of predators. Increased predator presence due to resource availability has displaced gazelles farther from settlements, subsequently impacting Acacia seed dispersal and recruitment. Considering the global expansion of dryland agriculture, the evidence of such socio-ecological cascading effects suggests the necessity to approach agricultural management at the landscape scale in desert regions."	NonUS	Ecology